headline,content,date,news_type,source
Alibaba fires employee accused of sexual assault as pressure mounts on Chinese tech,"The company on Monday said it has fired an employee after he was accused of sexually assaulting a woman who also works at Alibaba (BABA). The man confessed to actions that Alibaba deemed ""in serious violation of company policy,"" according to a memo sent by Alibaba Group chairman and CEO Daniel Zhang to employees.Two senior employees also resigned after they ""failed to prioritize employee protection,"" according to Zhang's memo.""Alibaba Group has a zero-tolerance policy against sexual misconduct, and ensuring a safe workplace for all our employees is Alibaba's top priority,"" a company spokesperson said in a statement to CNN Business.The allegations — which were widely circulated on Chinese social media over the weekend — have rocked Alibaba at a time when it and other Chinese tech companies are already facing incredible scrutiny from Chinese regulators over their business. The claims triggered public outcry as many criticized the company for its handling of the situation. The controversy started after a post — allegedly written by the victim, who did not identify herself, and published on an internal Alibaba website — circulated on the Chinese social media website Weibo. According to screenshots of the 8,000-word account, the woman claimed she was assaulted by her supervisor during a business trip to Jinan, a city in eastern China, while she says she was drunk. ""The male leader even entered my hotel room four times that night with condom and assaulted me!!!! When I typed the lines above, I couldn't control myself, and I broke into tears. I never thought that I would have such an experience,"" she wrote. ""When I think about it now, it just feels like a nightmare, one that makes you terrified, scared, helpless, helpless nightmare!""CNN Business cannot confirm the authenticity of the post.The post has exploded on Chinese social media. Topics related to the incident have been viewed 850 million times on Weibo, generating more than 510,000 discussion posts. Some commenters accused Alibaba of failing to protect the rights of its employees. The woman allegedly claimed that the company brushed off her concerns when she reported them.""How come there are still female employees who have been pushed and pressured by their leaders to drink and are violated. Is this the Alibaba culture?"" wrote one Weibo user. ""I really hope the results of the investigation can become clear as soon as possible. Such a large company must protect its employees.""On Sunday, police in Jinan announced on Weibo that they had launched a probe into the case.""The police are actively investigating the matter and collecting evidence,"" they said in a statement. The accused has not been charged with any crime. In the memo to employees on Monday, Zhang said the employee confessed to ""intimate acts"" with a woman who was inebriated, violating company policy. ""Whether he has committed rape or indecency that violates the law will be determined by law enforcement,"" Zhang added in the memo, which was posted publicly on the company's news website. ""He will be fired and never be rehired,"" Zhang wrote. Two executives, including the president of Alibaba's Neighborhood Retail group, have resigned over the handling of the incident, according to Zhang, who added that the woman reported the incident to the company August 2. ""We believe that the head of the business is both the owner of the business and the team's culture,"" Zhang wrote, adding that when the woman reported ""a horrendous act ... they did not make timely decisions nor took appropriate action.""""This incident has caused tremendous harm to her. We will do everything we can to take care of her,"" Zhang wrote.Zhang added that the company's chief people officer has also been reprimanded, and said that the company will establish a dedicated reporting channel for employees, as well as create an ""anti-sexual harassment policy"" that will include input from experts and employees. Zhang also acknowledged that the incident highlights what he called a culture of ""forced drinking,"" referring to alcohol-heavy events that are popular in China to secure business deals or build partnerships.  ""Although the police are still investigating the specific circumstances of the dinner that day, we are staunchly opposed to the ugly forced drinking culture,"" he wrote. ""Regardless of gender, whether it is a request made by a customer or a supervisor, our employees are empowered to reject it.""The scandal's rapid spread on social media — along with the public outrage that ensued — comes as major firms, including Alibaba, have faced huge regulatory pressure. As President Xi Jinping increasingly emphasizes the ruling Communist Party's dominant role in every aspect of China's economy and society, regulators have targeted tech, education and other businesses with fines and restrictions.Complaints about work culture play into that scrutiny. Pinduoduo, an e-commerce firm and rival to Alibaba, faced intense public backlash earlier this year  over accusations that it overworks its employees after two of its employees died unexpectedly, including a man who died by suicide. Chinese social media users started calling out the deaths as emblematic of a troublesome work culture, and a former software engineer at the company escalated criticisms in several posts where he accused the company of overworking its employees. The company did not respond at the time to questions about the allegations made against its work culture, but did say that it had set up a team to provide psychological counseling following the suicide of a worker.",2021-08-09,tech,CNN
Twitter suspends Marjorie Taylor Greene's account for one week,"Greene tweeted on Monday that the Food and Drug Administration ""should not approve the covid vaccines."" She also claimed the vaccines were ""failing"" and that they were ineffective at reducing the virus's spread. In response, Twitter labeled the tweet as misleading and prevented Greene from tweeting for one week. The tweet, a company spokesperson said, ""was labeled in line with our COVID-19 misleading information policy. The account will be in read-only mode for a week due to repeated violations of the Twitter Rules.""Tuesday's suspension marks at least the third and toughest penalty Twitter has imposed on Greene for sharing misinformation. In January, Greene was suspended for 12 hours from Twitter for sharing conspiracy theories about the Georgia Senate runoff elections, a move that the company said violated its civic integrity policy. In July, Twitter suspended Greene again for 12 hours for sharing misinformation about Covid-19 and vaccines. (Greene was also temporarily suspended in March but was soon reinstated after Twitter said its automated systems had acted in error.)According to Twitter's Covid-19 misinformation policy, users can receive a one-week suspension if they violate that policy four times. Violating the Covid-19 policy five or more times can result in a permanent ban. Twitter declined to say how many times Greene has violated the company's rules.",2021-08-10,tech,CNN
Why Silicon Valley is betting on making this dystopian sci-fi idea a reality,"The metaverse was originally conceived as the setting for dystopian science fiction novels, where virtual universes provide an escape from crumbling societies. Now, the idea has transformed into a moonshot goal for Silicon Valley, and become a favorite talking point among startups, venture capitalists and tech giants.The idea is to create a space similar to the internet, but one that users (via digital avatars) can walk around inside of and where they can interact with one another in real time. In theory, you could, for example, sit around a virtual meeting table with colleagues from around the world — instead of staring at their 2D faces on Zoom — and then walk over to a virtual Starbucks to meet up with your mom, who lives across the country.  Zuckerberg has in recent weeks been extolling his vision for turning Facebook (FB) into a ""metaverse company,"" claiming that he began thinking about the concept in middle school. The company recently announced the creation of a new metaverse product group and Zuckerberg said he sees the technology as ""the successor to the mobile internet.""Microsoft (MSFT) CEO Satya Nadella said last week that his company is working on building the ""enterprise metaverse."" Epic Games announced a $1 billion funding round in April to support its metaverse ambitions, pushing the Fortnite maker's valuation to nearly $30 billion. And in June, venture capitalist Matthew Ball helped launch an exchange traded fund so people can invest in the metaverse space, including companies like graphics chipmaker Nvidia (NVDA) and gaming platform Roblox (RBLX). Despite the current hype cycle, the idea is still amorphous, and a fully functioning metaverse is probably years and billions of dollars away — if it happens at all. Big companies joining the discussion now may simply want to reassure investors that they won't miss out on what could be the next big thing, or that their investments in VR, which has yet to gain broad commercial appeal, will eventually pay off. And, especially in Facebook's case, playing up the long-term potential for the metaverse could be a useful way of distracting from growing scrutiny in the here and now.Whatever the motivations, big questions remain, from how tech companies may handle safety and privacy issues in the metaverse to whether people really want to live much of their lives inside an immersive virtual simulation.""My biggest concern about the metaverse is: Are we ready?"" said Avi Bar-Zeev, founder of AR and VR consultancy RealityPrime and a former employee at Apple, Amazon and Microsoft, where he worked on the HoloLens. ""Are we emotionally evolved enough yet to move beyond the safe division of having screens between us and typing words?"" he said. ""Are we safe to start interacting at a more person-to-person level, or are the a**holes still going to ruin it for everybody?"" What is the ""metaverse""?The ""metaverse"" was coined in the 1992 cyberpunk novel ""Snow Crash."" In the book, main character Hiro Protagonist — a hacker and, for a short time, pizza deliverer — uses the metaverse as an escape from his life, in which he lives with a roommate in a 20-by-30-foot storage container in a bleak world where the government has been replaced by corrupt corporations. In that story, the metaverse is a platform for virtual creation, but it's also rife with problems, including technology addiction, discrimination, harassment and violence, which occasionally spill over into the real world.That's a far cry from the optimistic potential that Zuckerberg and others have presented. But one sign that the metaverse is still far off: No one can quite agree on a clear definition of what it is, or could be.Experts working in the space tend to agree on a few key aspects of the metaverse, including the idea that users will experience a sense of ""embodiment"" or ""presence."" That is, they'll feel like they're actually inside a virtual space with other people, seeing things in first-person and probably 3D. It will also be able to host many users who can interact with one another in real time.  ""You can kind of think about [the metaverse] as an embodied internet that you're inside of rather than just looking at,"" Zuckerberg said on the call.Much like the internet today, the metaverse won't be a single technology that gets switched on at once, but rather an ecosystem built over time by many different companies using a variety of technologies. Ideally, those various parts of the ecosystem will be interconnected and interoperable, said Jesse Alton, a leader at Open Metaverse, a group developing open source standards for the metaverse.""Someone who's playing a video game could win a flaming sword in their favorite game on Xbox, put it in their inventory, and later in VR, they can show it to their friend and their friend can hold it,"" said Alton, who is also the founder of extended reality firm AngellXR. ""It's the ability to transport [information] from one world to another, regardless of which platform it's in."" Some pieces of the metaverse already exist. Services like Fortnite, an online game in which users can compete, socialize and build virtual worlds with millions of other players, can give users an early sense of how it will work. And some people have already spent thousands of dollars on virtual homes, staking out their piece of metaverse real estate. Why is everyone suddenly talking about it? The metaverse is a relatively old idea that seems to gain momentum every few years, only to fade from the conversation in lieu of more immediate opportunities. Perhaps predictably, those working on this technology see signs that this time could be different.""A lot of the folks that were working on it before ... are still involved, it's just that we've been waiting for certain technological advancements,"" Alton said. Improvements in mobile device processors, gaming systems, internet infrastructure, virtual reality headsets and cryptocurrency are all crucial building blocks for creating the metaverse and ensuring consumer adoption. What's more, after the pandemic forced much of the world to work, learn and socialize from home, many people may feel more comfortable interacting virtually than they did two years ago, something tech companies may be trying to capitalize on. ""[A change like] this is always a multi-decade, iterative process ... and yet, despite that fact, there is an unmistakable sense over the past few years that the foundational pieces are coming together in a way that feels very new and very different,"" Ball, the venture capitalist, said. Will the metaverse have the same problems as the internet? Proponents of the metaverse say there could eventually be huge business potential — a whole new platform on which to sell digital goods and services. It could also have benefits for how humans interact using technology.""What we're really doing is figuring out ways to add technology into our lives to make our lives better and to enhance our communication with other people,"" RealityPrime's Bar-Zeev said. ""It's not just about conquering a whole new world."" But there are also a host of concerns about how the metaverse could be used or exploited. Zuckerberg said last week that advertisements will likely be a key source of revenue in the metaverse, just as they are for the company today. But some in the space worry that an ad-based business model will create haves, who can afford to pay for an ad-free headset or metaverse experience, and have-nots who can't, replicating inequalities present in the real world.""I don't want to see a world in which we segregate people into those who can afford it get a better experience and those who can't afford it have this crappy experience of being exploited for advertising,"" Bar-Zeev said. He added that online harassment could become more intense when users can assault each others' virtual bodies, rather than just trading ugly words on a screen. Data privacy and security could also become greater concerns when ""more of our lives, our data, our labor, our investments now exist in purely virtual form,"" Ball said. And other issues, such as misinformation and radicalization, could worsen in the metaverse, too.""If you can now replace somebody's entire reality with an alternate reality, you can make them believe almost anything,"" Bar-Zeev said. ""The responsibility of everybody in the field is to prevent the bad things as much as possible and foster the good things.""",2021-08-08,tech,CNN
AMC is playing to the Reddit crowd,"A version of this story first appeared in CNN Business' Before the Bell newsletter. Not a subscriber? You can sign up right here.The latest: On the company's earnings call Monday, Aron made it very clear through his choice of words — and downright flattery — that he views retail investors as crucial to the movie theater chain's fortunes.It's not altogether surprising, given that AMC — which had to close all of its cinemas during the peak of the pandemic last year — has been a major beneficiary of the meme stock phenomenon, in which retail investors pour billions of dollars into often troubled companies.The company posted a loss for the three months ended June, but it was narrower than analysts expected and revenue came in ahead of forecasts.""In short, AMC crushed it in Q2,"" Aron said on the call, adopting the Reddit crowd's lingo. Later, Aron highlighted the fact that AMC has implemented some of the ""great ideas"" that individual investors have ""showered"" it with, including screening professional sporting events and concerts.He answered around a dozen questions submitted by individual investors. ""Can you guys make the AMC mascot officially a gorilla?,"" Aaron asked, reflecting the tendency of Reddit investors to refer to each other as ""apes."" ""Would AMC ever consider reestablishing drive-in theaters?,"" Ryan wanted to know.By comparison, Aron took questions from just one analyst — down from about six a year ago — blaming time constraints for cutting it short.The reaction: The stock gained Monday and is up nearly 9% premarket. AMC's newest shareholders raved about Aron's performance on social media platforms such as Reddit afterwards. ""Silverback Adam crushed the earnings call. If you're ""in this to win this"", you should listen to it,"" wrote one observer on Twitter.What it means: Individual investors matter and companies are embracing them for good reason.AMC's stock is up over 1,500% so far this year and it was able to raise $587 million in June as meme traders piled in, even though none of the analysts who cover the company recommend buying the stock and theater attendance remains way below pre-pandemic levels.Watch this space: Playing to another online crowd favorite, AMC announced that it would start rolling out technology to let moviegoers in the United States pay for their tickets and snacks in bitcoin by the end of the year.It is also buying up American theaters and plans to open about a dozen new venues in the United States, Europe and the Middle East this year, betting that consumers will return to the movies once the pandemic subsides.""We fundamentally believe that ours is a future that is bright because there is nothing as magical as seeing dazzling images on a huge silver screen,"" Aron said on the call.Companies have nowhere to hide on climateBusinesses that don't have a plan in place to cut their carbon emissions may soon find themselves on the receiving end of shareholder revolts.What's happening: On Monday, the United Nations' Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change warned the world has rapidly warmed 1.1 degrees Celsius higher than pre-industrial era levels and is now careening toward 1.5 degrees — a critical threshold with dire global consequences.The shocking assessment will only increase pressure on companies to scale up climate action in order to reach the goals of the Paris Agreement.""The science is crystal clear but the response is not. Investors must use their influence to push decision makers to make the bold emission reductions required to limit the most severe consequences of climate change,"" Wai-Shin Chan, global head of environmental, social and governance research at HSBC (HSBC), told Reuters.See here: In one of the latest signs of the growing backlash that polluters face, Greenpeace is threatening to sue if Britain green-lights a new crude oil development in the North Sea.The project is co-owned by Siccar Point Energy and Shell (RDSB), which is trying to drum up confidence among shareholders in its plan to make its business greener. The oil producer may need to try harder.Read more about the Cambo development controversy here from my CNN Business colleague Julia Horowitz.How to retire earlyEarly retirement has long been seen as the preserve of a lucky few who hit the big time in their 30s or 40s, often with a high-stakes bet on a business venture that turns out to be a major success. That may be changing.The Financial Independence Retire Early movement — known as FIRE — is a method of living below your means to obtain financial independence as early as possible, my CNN Business colleague Jazmin Goodwin reports.How it works: FIRE focuses on keeping expenses low and savings high. People pursuing this goal start by picking a ""FIRE number,"" which is the amount of money they need to save to generate enough income to cover expenses without having to work.Generally, this means saving anywhere between 50% to 75% of annual income to retire well before the age of 65 and usually without any debt.Bottom line: ""Those looking to retire early need to widen the gap between what they earn and what they spend,"" explains Danielle R. Harrison, founder and president at Harrison Financial Planning.Up NextSysco (SYY) reports earnings before the opening bell. Coinbase Global, McAfee, Poshmark and Stride report earnings after US markets close.Coming tomorrow: Wendy's (WEN), Bumble and eBay (EBAY) earnings.",2021-08-10,investing,CNN
SoftBank's CEO went big on China. Now he's pulling back,"The Japanese billionaire said at an earnings presentation Tuesday that he would take a cautious approach until the impact of new regulations are clear.Chinese companies accounted for 23% of SoftBank's massive Vision Fund investment portfolio at the end of July. But only 11% of Vision Fund investment has been directed to the country since April, Son said.""It's because we would like to wait and see a while,"" he added. Taking questions from reporters, Son acknowledged that the company was ""facing tough challenges when it comes to investments in China.""""That's true,"" he said. ""That's something we'd like to be careful about, and be cautious. Once we have a better view, then we'd like to resume [further] investments.""In recent months, China has embarked on a major clampdown on private enterprise, which has engulfed some of the country's top players. Initially, it appeared that regulators' main target was the booming tech sector, but lately that has expanded to reach other industries, such as private education.Investors have been rattled. So far, the events have wiped out more than $1.2 trillion in market value and stoked fears about the future of innovation in the world's second largest economy. Son said he was concerned about the the impact regulations would have on stock markets. SoftBank (SFTBF), one of the world's largest tech investors, holds stakes in several top Chinese firms, including e-commerce titan Alibaba (BABA), ride-hailing giant Didi and TikTok owner ByteDance. Didi has especially felt the pain lately, with an initial public offering in the United States that went downhill after Beijing launched a probe into the company and banned it from Chinese app stores.Son did not comment on Didi specifically during the presentation, but said that he still had ""good expectations"" from SoftBank's portfolio companies in China.He reiterated that the firm wanted to ""wait and see how things go"" as regulations continued to roll out, adding that there was no specific timeline on how long it planned to take that approach.""Is it six months, 12 months? I don't know yet,"" the executive said. ""[But] in one year or two years, under the new rules, and under new orders, I think things will be much clearer ... Once things get clearer, then we are open to resuming active investment.""Son's remarks came as SoftBank posted a nearly 40% drop in profits Tuesday. Net income fell to 761.5 billion yen ($6.9 billion) in the quarter ended June compared to the same period a year ago.The company largely attributed that to a major one-off gain it received last year based on the merger of Sprint (S) — which Son had bought in 2013 — and T-Mobile (TMUS).Despite the crackdown, Son said he remains bullish on China in the long run.""There are still risks out there, like the risks in China. But we want to take risks,"" he said. ""We are not against or for the Chinese government, and we don't have any doubt about [the] future potential of China.""— Laura He contributed to this report.",2021-08-10,investing,CNN
Warren Buffett is buying more of his own stock as Berkshire profits surge,"Berkshire (BRKB) reported strong second quarter earnings on Saturday. Overall profits came in at $28.1 billion in the second quarter, up 7% from the same period a year ago, And Berkshire's net income for the first half of 2021 hit $39.8 billion, reversing a $23.5 billion loss in the first six months of 2020.Operating profits, a measure that Buffett and many analysts and investors prefer to look at as a true measure of Berkshire's health, rebounded sharply as well. The company posted an operating profit of $6.7 billion in the second quarter, a 21% surge from a year ago.Yet Buffett, who has a net worth of nearly $105 billion, continues to be cautious. Berkshire has a giant pile of cash that is growing even bigger as Berkshire looks for more investing opportunities. The company had $144.1 billion on its balance sheet as of the end of June, up from $138.3 billion in December.Although Buffett is famous for making savvy investments in blue chip American companies like Apple (AAPL), Coca-Cola (KO) and American Express (AXP), Berkshire has recently been splurging on its own stock. The company disclosed Saturday that it repurchased $6 billion of its shares in the second quarter. It has now bought back $12.6 billion in Berkshire stock so far this year. That's been a good investment as of late. Shares of Berkshire's more affordable B shares, which trade for around $285 and are in the S&P 500, are up 23% this year — outperforming the broader market. The company's A shares (BRKA), which do not split, trade for about $430,000 apiece.  Still, Buffett has long talked about wanting to do one more ""elephant-sized"" acquisition to broaden out the company's portfolio of assets. But make no mistake: Berkshire is doing just fine with what it already owns.Berkshire's railroad, utilities and energy businesses were a big winner in the second quarter, posting a 28% jump in operating earnings. Berkshire owns the Burlington Northern Santa Fe railroad and PacifiCorp and MidAmerican Energy utility companies.The company's ""other"" business unit, which includes a variety of consumer companies ranging from Dairy Queen and See's Candies to Duracell batteries, Benjamin Moore paints and Fruit of the Loom underwear. In a sign of how important these businesses are to Berkshire, the company announced in May that Greg Abel, the Berkshire vice chairman in charge of the company's non-insurance operations, will succeed the soon to be 91-year old Buffett as Berkshire CEO once he either retires or passes away. Ajit Jain, another Berkshire vice chairman, runs the company's massive insurance unit, which includes auto and home insurance giant Geico. ",2021-08-09,investing,CNN
You might be able to retire earlier than you think. Here's how,"Financial Independence Retire Early -- or FIRE -- is a method of living below your means to obtain financial independence and security as early as possible.""The mentality behind the movement is where one strives to live life on their own terms and to get off the proverbial hamster wheel where you are dependent on your employer and have the freedom and security to do so,"" said Danielle R. Harrison, founder and president at Harrison Financial Planning.   That could mean having the financial freedom to change careers, work less or travel the world. So what exactly does the FIRE movement entail? Here's everything you need to know.What is FIRE?The concept of FIRE is based on the notion that retirement is determined by a financial number and not by a person's age. It focuses on keeping expenses low and savings high. That means usually saving anywhere between 50% to 75% of your annual income to retire well before the age of 65 and usually without any debt. ""FIRE involves a shift in perspective regarding money and work, prioritizing what is most important to your work-life balance, and making decisions not dictated by the need to earn money but the ultimate goal of financial freedom,"" said AnnaMarie Mock, a certified financial planner and wealth adviser for Highland Financial Advisors. People looking to pursue FIRE typically start by picking what's called a FIRE number, which is the amount of money you'd need to have saved to generate enough income to cover your expenses without having to work.To determine your FIRE number, start off by figuring out your yearly expenses, excluding savings and taxes. From there, calculate how much savings you'll need to generate that much income without having a paycheck. One rule of thumb, known as the 4% rule, says that retirees can safely withdraw about 4% of their savings a year without running out of money. That means saving 25 times your current annual expenses could last indefinitely with regular 4% yearly withdrawals.For example, if your annual expenses are $50,000 per year, you would need at least $1,250,000 ($50,000 x 25) saved when you retire. You can also take a more conservative approach by saving 28 to 33 times your current expenses, and take only 3% to 3.5% withdrawals. From there, try an online calculator to determine how much to save and when you can reach that early nest egg number. Starting as early as possible comes with many advantages. After all, getting a head start on your savings and investments gives your money more time to compound. But even though retiring early requires various sacrifices when it comes to saving and spending, the perks can be rewarding. ""The biggest perk of FIRE is independence,"" said Kevin Chancellor, a certified Social Security claiming strategist and financial adviser. ""If your budget is still sustainable then you have the freedom to travel, be involved in your kid's school activities, start a side business or hobby, and spend more time doing what you want to do rather than what you need to do.""Reaching the magic numberMany people think they don't earn enough to be able to retire early. But there are several methods of reaching FIRE that could help them retire faster than they think. When making the decision to retire early, you should expect to make some significant lifestyle changes. Those changes could be as big as increasing your streams of income or as small as cutting your own hair. It all comes down to either reducing how much you spend or boosting how much you save -- or both. ""Those looking to retire early need to widen the gap between what they earn and what they spend,"" said Harrison. One way to do that is to drastically slash expenses and live a more frugal and lean lifestyle, which is often the quickest way to FIRE. Known as ""Lean FIRE,"" this typically means having a lower target number for your nest egg and living more modestly in retirement. Those who aren't interested in pinching pennies and have higher-than-average expenses can still retire by increasing their income.Some ways to achieve ""Fat FIRE,"" as it's known, could involve negotiating a higher salary, finding a higher paying job, accumulating sought-after skills, working a side-hustle or owning rental properties. Often, those pursuing Fat FIRE will either choose to work in higher paying professions or take longer to reach their larger savings goal.Some people who want to retire sooner can pursue another method often called ""Barista FIRE."" In this scenario, you can quit your full-time day job once you've stashed away enough retirement savings to grow into a nice nest egg in a few more years without having to add funds. But rather than ceasing work altogether, you work a part-time job, pursue a less lucrative dream career or take on freelance projects in order to cover basic living expenses, all the while allowing your long-term retirement savings to grow until a more traditional retirement age. Is FIRE right for me?Another thing to consider is how you'll spend your time without filling your days with a paid job. For example, will you pursue hobbies, volunteer or travel more? Without a plan in place, you might find that FIRE isn't all you'd hoped it would be.""For anyone retiring, it is important to know what you are retiring to. This is even more important for those looking to retire early,"" said Harrison. ""Figure out what is going to give your life meaning and purpose, so your retirement years can bring you joy.""",2021-08-09,business,CNN
Inflation wiped out America's pay raises,"But those fatter paychecks aren't going as far, thanks to rising inflation. In fact, compensation is now lower than it was in December 2019, when adjusted for inflation, according to an analysis by Jason Furman, an economics professor at Harvard University. The Employment Cost Index — which measures wages and salaries, along with health, retirement and other benefits — fell in the last quarter and is 2% below its pre-pandemic trend, when taking inflation into account. (Wages and salaries are growing at a faster pace than benefits.)""The hot economy is heating prices more than it is heating wages,"" said Furman.The index is not subject to the same distortions as other measures, such as average hourly earnings, because it keeps the composition of the workforce constant. The average hourly earnings metric has been swinging during the pandemic as many lower-wage workers lost their jobs initially and are now returning to work.Not counting inflation, compensation rose 2.8% between March and June, despite the relatively high unemployment rate -- a trend that reflects the tight labor market. Job openings are at record-high levels, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics.But at the same time, prices are soaring. Gas costs more. Food is more expensive. Car prices are at record levels.The consumer price index rose 0.9% in June and 5.4% over the past 12 months — the largest jumps for each since mid-2008, according to federal data.Americans are noticing, raising concerns about the higher prices for homes, cars and household goods, such as appliances, according to the University of Michigan Survey of Consumers released in late July. Still, they generally view the price hikes as short-term, and their improved finances has greatly reduced their resistance to the increases, Richard Curtin, the survey's chief economist, wrote in the most recent report.Differences by industryInflation-adjusted compensation is down in most industries, but there is one notable exception: Leisure and hospitality. That industry's employers are scrambling to find workers, resulting in a 1.6% bump in pay and benefits since December 2019, according to Furman's analysis.But employees of the utilities industry saw their real compensation slide 1% since December 2019. In education and health services, their real compensation slid 0.8%. Manufacturing fell 0.7% and in transportation and warehousing, real compensation slipped 0.6%.Just how long the steep rise in inflation will last remains a subject of debate. President Joe Biden and the Federal Reserve are arguing that it won't be a long-term issue, while some experts worry that the price increases may be more entrenched.But if the inflation growth rate starts to ease, workers will be better able to enjoy their boost in pay.""To the extent that inflation is transitory, this dip in real wages is also transitory,"" said Tim Duy, chief US economist at SGH Macro Advisors, a research firm for the financial industry and policymakers.",2021-08-10,business,CNN
Why big chains aren't requiring vaccines for customers ,"Representatives for retailers and restaurants and HR consultants who work with companies say it's too risky for frontline staff to be put in the position of enforcing vaccine rules for customers. Half of the US population has been fully vaccinated, according to the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, and pockets of Americans remain resistant or fiercely opposed to getting the shots. There's also the risk that such requirements would alienate customers.Requiring customers to mask up throughout the pandemic has led to confrontations between customers who oppose mask wearing and store staff. Mandating vaccines would be even more challenging for businesses and jeopardize worker safety, industry trade groups say. Instead, large chains are taking different approaches. McDonald's (MCD) is requiring its workers to mask up in high-risk areas and that customers do so as well. Walmart (WMT), Target (TGT) and others are requiring workers to wear masks but only recommending that customers do, too, in high-risk areas. Walmart, Walgreens (WBA) and Gap (GPS) are requiring corporate employees to be vaccinated as they seek to bring people back to the office, but not frontline staff in stores. Walmart, the largest private US employer, has said it hopes that requiring corporate staff to be vaccinated will convince more retail workers to get the shots.""We want to stick with the message that strongly encourages everybody to get vaccinated, but don't want to create a situation where employees basically have a risk of physical assault, because it happened last year,"" said Larry Lynch, senior vice president of science and industry for the National Restaurant Association. ""That's our biggest fear.""David French, senior vice president of government relations at the National Retail Federation, doesn't believe vaccine mandates for customers are the ""right step"" for retail chains, and they would be unable to enforce such mandates.""Store employees are not trained to be security enforcement people,"" he said. ""What do you do if someone says they're coming in and not going to show their vaccination status?""No technology in placeThere are other barriers to vaccine requirements for customers aside from safety concerns, too. Most retail stores ""don't have any experience with requiring things like an ID to come into a store,"" French said, and it would hurt the quality of their customer service to be scrutinizing shoppers' vaccine status. There is no technology in place for retailers to easily check customers' vaccine status nationwide, he said. And then there's the question of what would happen if people forgot their vaccine cards at home or were accompanied by children who are not yet vaccinated.""There are some real practical problems with requiring vaccination status to enter a retail store,"" he said. ""It's something a lot of retailers are scratching their heads at.""Vaccine mandates for customers would also clash with some state and local rules, these industry groups say. Fourteen states have banned so-called vaccine passports — digital apps that allow users to show proof of vaccination before entering events and businesses — according to the National Academy for State Health Policy, a non-profit health policy organization which tracks such data.Companies' decisions on how to approach vaccine rules come as more businesses start to require vaccines for their workers and cities such as New York mandate them for customers to eat indoors and visit gyms. Some New York City restaurants are welcoming the new requirement. They hope that the measure will help avoid another shutdown, and are looking for support from the city to help them put it into place.But for the most part, it's easier for companies to set employment requirements for their own workforce than unfamiliar customers coming in every day, said Craig Rowley, senior client partner specializing in retail at executive search firm Korn Ferry.Public attitude on vaccine mandates for customers is sharply divided, another consideration for businesses.A Quinnipiac University poll of 1,290 adults from July 27 to August 2 found that 52% support requiring proof of vaccination for airline passengers, 49% support vaccine proof for attendees of large sports and entertainment events, and just 37% support proof for restaurant customers.""There are varying opinions on who should be required to prove they have had the vaccine. Yes on proof of vaccination for those who fly, a toss-up for people attending large events, and a no for people going to restaurants,"" said Quinnipiac University polling analyst Tim Malloy.",2021-08-09,business,CNN
JetBlue to launch NY-UK flights despite pandemic,"JetBlue has said the Covid pandemic will not stop the airline from launching its long-awaited New York to London service on Wednesday.Chief executive Robin Hayes told the BBC there was ""strong demand"" for the route in the US where, he said, JetBlue had returned to 2019 levels.The move comes as the global travel industry continues to recover.Holiday Inn-owner Intercontinental Hotels said holiday demand was ""returning strongly"".In its latest results statement, Intercontinental Hotels Group (IHG), whose other brands include the Crowne Plaza chain, said it had opened 132 hotels during the January-to-June period and acquired another 203, both sizeable increases on last year.""Trading improved significantly during the first half of 2021, with travel demand returning strongly as vaccines roll out, restrictions ease and economic activity rebuilds,"" said IHG chief executive Keith Barr.""It has been great to see our teams welcome more and more guests back into our hotels, with domestic leisure bookings leading the way, particularly in the US and China.""Measured on revenue per available room, nearly half of the group's hotels worldwide were above 2019 levels in July, it said.JetBlue's first transatlantic flight will leave New York's JFK airport on Wednesday evening and will land at London's Heathrow. Flights to London Gatwick will begin on 29 September.However, travelling on the route does not come cheap, at least to start with. JetBlue's website no longer has seats available for that inaugural flight, but prices for the next few days start at $941 (Â£679) one-way.That is still slightly cheaper than British Airways and Virgin Atlantic, which are both quoting a price of $980 for the same time period.Thanks to the likes of those established competitors, there are already as many as 28 flights a day available between London and New York.And other carriers have come a cropper on the same route, including Norwegian Air, which filed for bankruptcy in November 2020 after failing to make its low-cost strategy pay.However, JetBlue will be cutting costs by using smaller aircraft, relying on the single-aisle Airbus A321LR, rather than the Boeing 787 Dreamliners that were favoured by Norwegian.And for those who can book further in advance, it is pledging to offer return fares of less than $600.The airline's Mr Hayes said it had wanted to offer a New York-to-London service for a long time and flights were now ""ready to go"".He said JetBlue wanted to have ""a disruptive and permanent effect"" on the market.US-based travellers are now welcome to fly to the UK without having to quarantine on arrival if they have been fully vaccinated, but there is still a travel ban on people from the UK flying to the US. The White House said at the end of last month that it did not intend to lift Covid-19 travel restrictions for non-Americans.Asked about this, Mr Hayes said JetBlue had made its views clear about the restrictions and that the current approach was ""not risk-based"".",2021-08-10,business,BBC
China sues Tencent over WeChat Youth Mode,"Beijing prosecutors have filed a civil legal action against Tencent over claims its messaging-app WeChat's Youth Mode does not comply with laws protecting minors. Youth Mode prevents younger users from accessing payments, playing certain games and finding nearby friends. However, prosecutors have not specified exactly how the app is allegedly violating Chinese law. Tencent said it would ""investigate"" the claim. ""We will earnestly inspect and check the functions of WeChat Youth Mode, accept user suggestions humbly and sincerely respond to civil public-interest litigation,"" the company posted on Weibo.WeChat, known as Weixin in China, has about 1.26 billion monthly active users.Last week, Chinese authorities called for minors to be better protected from online dangers, with a state-media article labelling games as ""spiritual opium"". Tencent's share price fell by more than 10% shortly after the article was published. And it swiftly announced stricter limits for younger players of its hugely popular game Honour of Kings. Young players can now access the game for only an hour a day on weekdays. Play time in China was previously capped at:The mobile title has more than 100 million users worldwide. In April, it was reported Chinese authorities were preparing a substantial fine for Tencent as part of its efforts to clamp down on internet giants. ",2021-08-09,tech,BBC
Sharing apps are booming but will the kindness continue?,"The pandemic, and lockdown, made Adam Ellison want to help other people.Before coronavirus, he was content with his job in marketing and his own social bubble. But that changed when millions faced hardship due to pandemic disruption caused by the virus. ""I've become more conscious of everybody else,"" he says. ""Some people have had it worse.""In October, he signed up to be a volunteer on Olio, an app that allows people to share edible food waste with others. Every Saturday, Mr Ellison, who lives in a small town near Kilmarnock in Scotland, goes to Tesco at 07:00 to collect unsold produce. Bread, avocados, limes, tomatoes, herbs - it changes every week. He adds whatever items he collects to the app and people who live nearby can request them for pickup. Often, all the food is gone within a day.The number of users on Olio has doubled during the pandemic, from 2 million to 4 million worldwide. It's one of several apps and social media sites that have seen a sharp increase in charitable activity since the emergence of Covid-19.""The demand is just off the chart,"" says Tessa Clarke, Olio's co-founder. The app used to see just under 300,000 food items listed every month. That figure is now roughly 1.6 million, and half of all items are requested by the app's users within 30 minutes of being listed.The boom is partly down to the partnership between Olio and Tesco, which was announced last September. It allows Olio volunteers like Mr Ellison to collect and share food waste not claimed by charities. But Ms Clarke says the pandemic has also motivated people to think differently about food waste - particularly after images of empty supermarket shelves circulated in March last year. ""That led to an almost overnight step-change in terms of people actually valuing food,"" she says. People who claim food on Olio may be facing hunger, or they may simply want to help reduce food waste. Ms Clarke notes that there was, sadly, a noticeable rise in users seeking food for their families via Olio because of a loss of income, or suspension of free school meals.Just a few weeks into redistributing food via the app, Mr Ellison received a message from someone who was particularly in need of food. ""I was in a position where I could actually really help this person,"" he says. ""I can't explain how good that feels, to be able to do that for someone else.""In August, Olio will branch out with a new feature called Borrow, where users will be able to lend people items under a certain value, such as tools. The idea is to reduce the unnecessary purchase of objects that are only used very occasionally. Other apps, such as Freecycle.org and Nextdoor, have also registered a surge in altruistic behaviour during the pandemic.""We went from maybe 60,000 posts a day to 120,000 posts a day overnightâ¦ it was amazing,"" says Deron Beal, founder of Freecycle.org, a website that allows people to offer unwanted possessions to others for free online.The site was flooded with so much activity that Mr Beal's team had to activate additional servers to cope with demand, he adds.Freecycle.org users posted information about the location of vaccination sites, as well as offering home-made cloth masks for free. There was also an increase in listings of food and clothing items.Meanwhile, at Nextdoor, a social network that connects people who live in the same district, there was a 380% increase in posts from UK users that mentioned helping or assisting each another. ""About 70% of our members are still talking about wanting to shop local and supporting local businesses,"" adds Jennie Sager, head of Europe and Australia at Nextdoor.She adds that activity was very high in London, and cites one example of a father and daughter who gave away almost 300 plants for free to their neighbours via Nextdoor.""He thought it would help people reduce their stress,"" says Ms Sager. And the UK Help Map, through which users can offer and find help of various kinds, has received a million unique views. 78,000 people in the country have pinned their locations to the map and offered assistance to their neighbours.While altruistic interventions and acts of kindness have boomed on social apps, cash donations to charities fell during the pandemic, notes Cat Mahoney, research manager at the Charities Aid Foundation (CAF). Online donations rose, however. While they have since fallen again, they remain above pre-pandemic levels.The big question now is whether the broader surge of app-mediated compassion will continue. The influx of posts using terms related to kindness or giving on Nextdoor has been sustained throughout the pandemic, even in countries that have experienced long stretches of very low cases, says Ms Sager. ""When we see neighbourhoods go in and out of lockdown globally, we don't see a massive dip,"" she adds.And at Freecycle.org, some listings - such as free food - have become less common lately, though items people acquired for lockdown hobbies that they no longer need are currently in abundance on the site, says Mr Beal.Dr Oksana Gerwe at Brunel University says that people's familiarity with digital platforms, and their trust in online reviews, may have helped pave the way for online altruism during the pandemic. But she is sceptical that this activity will last unless people form true habits of giving and helping each other regularly. One person who might fit the bill is Mr Ellison. He says his experience of volunteering via Olio has strengthened his belief in the power of communities.""If everybody did something small but meaningful, we'd live in a much, much better society,"" he says. ""I think Covid's been a catalyst for that.""",2021-08-09,business,BBC
TikTok named as the most downloaded app of 2020,"TikTok was the world's most downloaded app in 2020 as it took the top spot from Facebook Messenger, according to digital analytics company App Annie.The Chinese video-sharing platform is the only app not owned by Facebook to make the global top five of downloads.In its home country, TikTok's owner ByteDance also holds the top spot with the Chinese language video app Douyin.TikTok's continued popularity emerged even after former US President Donald Trump tried to ban it in America.Facebook-owned apps have held the top spot since the survey started in 2018 and the company still dominated the chart.Mark Zuckerberg's social media giant accounted for the rest of the top five with Facebook's flagship app as well as WhatsApp, Instagram and Facebook Messenger all making an appearance.Last year, then-President Donald Trump issued an executive order to ban new downloads of the TikTok app in the US.The Trump administration claimed that TikTok posed a national security risk as the Chinese government had access to its user data. The company repeatedly denied the allegations.A potential deal to resolve the issue that would have seen parent company ByteDance selling part of its US business to US technology giant Oracle and retailer Walmart was given the tentative green light from Mr Trump but was never approved by the Chinese government.Since becoming US President in January this year Joe Biden has withdrawn Mr Trump's executive order.As well as seeing off that challenge in the US the company has been exploring new ways to attract users.Last week, it emerged that TikTok is trialling a new vanishing clips feature similar to functions on Snapchat, Facebook and Instagram.TikTok Stories will allow users to see content posted by accounts they follow for 24 hours before they are deleted.It came after WhatsApp rolled out a feature for users to post photos or videos that vanish after they are seen.",2021-08-10,business,BBC
US job vacancies hit a record 10.1 million,"US job openings hit a fresh record in June amid reports the country continues to face a labour shortage. Job vacancies jumped by 590,000 to 10.1 million on the last day of the month, according to figures from the Labor Department.That was up from a record 9.5 million openings in May and well above economists' expectations.It comes as companies struggle to find workers in sectors such as leisure and hospitality as the economy reopens.""The ratio of openings to hires, despite easing in June, remained at historically elevated levels,"" JPMorgan analyst Peter McCrory said.US unemployment surged to 14.8% at the start of the coronavirus pandemic, but the economy has been recovering strongly this year. However, despite restrictions being eased, workers have not rushed back to jobs in the numbers expected. The shortfall has been blamed on a lack of affordable childcare, generous unemployment benefits, and pandemic-related retirements and career changes.Some also believe there are too many low-skilled jobs being advertised, and not enough suitable candidates.Official unemployment figures in July suggested the country might be turning a corner, as employment rose by 943,000. The unemployment rate also fell 0.5 percentage points to 5.4%.However the figures mainly pre-date the rise of the Delta variant of Covid in the US, which has led to a surge in infections and fears new restrictions could be imposed.Already New York City has said all customers and staff of restaurants, gyms and other indoor businesses will have to be fully vaccinated against Covid-19.And the city's Auto Show, scheduled to run from 20 to 29 August, has been cancelled due to fears about rising infection rates.  Figures from the Labor Department showed the number of people voluntarily leaving their employment in June increased to 3.9 million from 3.6 million in May, well above pre-pandemic levels.However, in a positive sign hiring rose to 6.7 million from 6 million in the previous month, the second largest increase since the government started tracking the data in 2000. The largest increases in vacancies in June were in professional and business services, retail, and accommodation and food services.Some economists believe hiring will pick up further as schools reopen in September and more states phase out emergency unemployment benefits.   Economists are also increasingly confident that US unemployment levels will reach pre-pandemic levels next year, with Goldman Sachs projecting a rate of 3.5% by the end of 2022.",2021-08-09,business,BBC
Apple defends new photo scanning child protection tech,"Apple has defended its new system that scans users' phones for child sexual abuse material (CSAM), after a backlash from customers and privacy advocates. The technology searches for matches of known abuse material before the image is uploaded to its iCloud storage.Critics warned it could be a ""backdoor"" to spy on people, and more than 5,000 people and organisations have signed an open letter against the technology. As a result, Apple has pledged not to ""expand"" the system for any reason.Digital privacy campaigners warned last week that authoritarian governments could use the technology to bolster anti-LGBT regimes, or crack down on political dissidents in countries where protests are deemed illegal.But Apple said it would ""will not accede to any government's request to expand"" the system.It published a question-and-answer document, saying it had numerous safeguards in place to stop its systems from being used for anything other than the detection of child abuse imagery. ""We have faced demands to build and deploy government-mandated changes that degrade the privacy of users before, and have steadfastly refused those demands. We will continue to refuse them in the future,"" it said.However, Apple has made some concessions in the past in order to keep operating in countries around the world. Last New Year's Eve, the tech giant removed 39,000 apps from its Chinese App Store amid a crackdown on unlicensed games by authorities in the country. Apple also said its anti-CSAM tool will not allow the company to see or scan a user's photo album. It will only scan photos that are shared on iCloud.The system will look for matches, securely on the device, based on a database of hashes of known CSAM images provided by child safety organisations.Apple also claims it is nearly impossible to falsely flag innocent people to police. ""The likelihood that the system would incorrectly flag any given account is less than one in one trillion per year,"" it said. There is also a human review of positive matches.Privacy advocates, however, have argued that the only thing preventing that technology being turned to other uses is Apple's promise that it will not be.Digital rights group the Electronic Frontier Foundation, for example, said that ""all it would take... is an expansion of the machine learning parameters to look for additional types of content"".""That's not a slippery slope; that's a fully-built system just waiting for external pressure to make the slightest change,"" it warned.Apple also provided reassurances regarding another new feature that will warn children and their parents using linked family accounts, when sexually explicit photos are sent or received. The company says its two new features do not use the same technology, and says it will ""never"" gain access to users' private communications. While there was a backlash regarding Apple's announcement from privacy advocates, some politicians welcomed the new technology. UK Health Secretary Sajid Javid said it was time for others, especially Facebook, to follow suit.",2021-08-09,tech,BBC
Paddy Power owner revenue soars amid online gambling boom,"Paddy Power-owner Flutter has said its UK betting shop revenue has jumped higher than pre-Covid levels.Betting shops were closed during lockdowns but since reopening in June, Flutter said UK retail revenue rose 7% ahead of sales before the pandemic.Like its rivals, Flutter has seen strong growth in online gambling as shops closed and people were forced to work from home.But one gambling helpline said calls had risen by 9% in the year to March.And punters came back to betting shops after they re-opened as Covid restrictions eased in the second quarter, with UK retail revenue 7% higher than pre-Covid levels, it said.The number of people using Flutter's online gambling in the UK leapt even more, increasing nearly 60%.A UK gambling helpline said calls had increased by 9% in the year to the end of March.Flutter said global revenue rose 28% to Â£3bn as its average number of gamblers rose 40% to more than 7.5 million.Chief executive Peter Jackson said: ""The first half of 2021 exceeded our expectations as we made substantial progress against our operational and strategic objectives while maintaining excellent momentum in growing our player base.""Many countries around the world closed down betting shops during coronavirus lockdowns, and gamblers shifted their focus online.Flutter attracted new customers during lockdowns, and kept hold of many of them in the first half, said Alistair Johnson, analyst at Redburn.Studies have suggested that online gambling soared during coronavirus lockdowns, with vulnerable groups particularly at risk.In the UK, Flutter, which owns brands such as Betfair and Sky Betting and Gaming, said it had 59% more online customers than in the same period in 2019 before the coronavirus crisis.Overall, its UK and Ireland average monthly numbers grew 44% to 3.3 million customers. This outpaced revenue growth of 30% - so on average, revenue per active customer was lower, it said.Flutter has been pouring money into its US business, spending more than $1bn to date on marketing its flagship FanDuel sports betting brand.US revenues were more than $900m in the first half, putting distance between it and its main rivals, it said.The gambling giant competed its acquisition of Canadian gambling business the Stars Group on 5 May 2020.Freetrade analyst Gemma Boothroyd said the pandemic ""lent a helping hand to online betting, speeding up its transition to digital"".She said US revenue growth, which soared by 159% to Â£652m, was ""driven by six additional states legalising sports betting"".""As vaccination ramps up and Flutter's main markets return to business-as-usual, it may be ill-prepared for lockdowns easing,"" Ms Boothroyd added.Last year a House of Lords report found that there were a third of a million problem gamblers in the UK, with young people being most at risk.The amount of harm was wider, though. For each problem gambler, six were harmed by their activities. So two million people were harmed by ""the breakup of families, crime, loss of employment, loss of homes and, ultimately, loss of life"", the report said.It found that 60% of gambling companies' profits come from the 5% of customers who are already problem gamblers, or who are at risk of becoming so.A study in May this year suggested that online gambling soared in 2020 in the UK, with regular gamblers more than six times more likely to gamble online.The University of Bristol study suggested that ""although many forms of gambling were restricted, a minority of regular gamblers significantly increased their gambling and betting online"" with vulnerable groups ""worse affected"".There was also a strong link between binge drinking and regular gambling, researchers said.GamCare, which operates the National Gambling Helpline, said it had received 41,000 calls for help in the year to the end of March, a 9% increase on the previous year.It said there was a big increase in gambling due to boredom, but also more gamblers were using it as a coping strategy during the pandemic.Two thirds of the gamblers calling the helpline had debt issues, and three quarters had financial difficulties due to gambling.The most problematic online products were slots, betting, and casino games.Offline, betting in shops and gaming machines were problematic, gamblers said.Flutter said that it was developing steps ""focused on protecting those that are vulnerable without unnecessarily impinging on the freedoms of the majority of customers"".The UK government is reviewing gambling laws.",2021-08-10,business,BBC
Marlboro owner wants to buy a company that makes asthma inhalers. Health charities say it must be stopped,"Marlboro maker Philip Morris International (PMI) on Sunday increased its offer for pharmaceutical company Vectura to more than £1 billion ($1.4 billion) in an attempt to fend off a rival bid from US private equity group Carlyle. The revised offer comes just weeks after the tobacco giant said it will stop selling Marlboro cigarettes in Britain within a decade. In a statement, Philip Morris International (PM) said it had increased its bid for Vectura to £1.65 ($2.29) per share, valuing the asthma inhaler maker at £1.02 billion ($1.4 billion).The deal would boost the tobacco giant's ambition to generate more than half of its net revenue from smoke-free products such as e-cigarettes and respiratory drugs within four years, up from about a quarter today. PMI currently sells cigarettes in more than 175 markets.Vectura has manufactured 13 inhaled medicines for companies such as Novartis (NVS) and GlaxoSmithKline (GSK) to treat lung conditions including asthma. It is currently working on an inhalation treatment for Covid-19 with Inspira Pharmaceuticals, another UK company.""PMI intends to operate Vectura as an autonomous business unit that will form the backbone of PMI's inhaled therapeutics business,"" Philip Morris International said. Tobacco companies are under pressure to diversify amid dwindling smoker numbers, a push from governments to reduce the prevalence and dangers of smoking, and moves by investors to strip tobacco products from their portfolios.Philip Morris International has invested $8 billion and hired dozens of scientists and technicians to develop alternatives to cigarettes, including its flagship IQOS product, which heats rather than burns tobacco.The company also recently bought Fertin Pharma, which manufactures oral drugs to treat pain, allergies and various other ailments.Philip Morris International was separated from New York-listed Altria (MO) in 2008. Altria owns Philip Morris USA, which sells cigarette brands including Marlboro, Virginia Slims, Parliament and Merit in the United States.Deal backlashHealth charities are skeptical of Philip Morris International's plans and have urged the UK government to block the Vectura deal, warning it will allow the tobacco industry to influence public health policy in Britain.""It's ironic that a tobacco company wants to invest in the lung health industry when their products are the biggest preventable cause of cancer, including lung cancer,"" Cancer Research UK's chief executive Michelle Mitchell said in a statement last month. ""If PMI really wanted to help, they could stop aggressively promoting and selling their products altogether,"" she added.In a letter to the UK government, Cancer Research UK, the British Lung Foundation and Action on Smoking and Health said there is ""huge unease"" that a tobacco company could profit from treatments for conditions such as asthma, emphysema and chronic bronchitis.""There is a real prospect that PMI will use this acquisition to legitimise tobacco industry participation in health debates within the UK. This must not be allowed to happen,"" the organizations said, calling on the government to intervene.Philip Morris' revised offer came just two days after Carlyle raised its own bid for Vectura to £1.55 ($2.15) per share. Vectura had on Friday recommended the Carlyle offer to shareholders, voicing concerns around being owned by Philip Morris and saying it may be ""better positioned under Carlyle ownership."" The company on Monday said it was withdrawing that recommendation but had no intention yet to recommend the Philip Morris International offer.The takeover battle will enter an auction process if the rival bidders do not make final offers by Tuesday, according to British regulators.",2021-08-09,business,CNN
Paddy Power owner betting shop revenue rebounds,"Paddy Power-owner Flutter has said its UK betting shop revenue has jumped higher than pre-Covid levels.Betting shops were closed during lockdowns but since reopening in June, Flutter said UK retail revenue rose 7% ahead of sales before the pandemic.Like its rivals, Flutter has seen strong growth in online gambling as shops closed and people were forced to work from home.But one gambling helpline said calls had risen by 9% in the year to March.And punters came back to betting shops after they re-opened as Covid restrictions eased in the second quarter, with UK retail revenue 7% higher than pre-Covid levels, it said.The number of people using Flutter's online gambling in the UK leapt even more, increasing nearly 60%.A UK gambling helpline said calls had increased by 9% in the year to the end of March.Flutter said global revenue rose 28% to Â£3bn as its average number of gamblers rose 40% to more than 7.5 million.Chief executive Peter Jackson said: ""The first half of 2021 exceeded our expectations as we made substantial progress against our operational and strategic objectives while maintaining excellent momentum in growing our player base.""Many countries around the world closed down betting shops during coronavirus lockdowns, and gamblers shifted their focus online.Flutter attracted new customers during lockdowns, and kept hold of many of them in the first half, said Alistair Johnson, analyst at Redburn.Studies have suggested that online gambling soared during coronavirus lockdowns, with vulnerable groups particularly at risk.In the UK, Flutter, which owns brands such as Betfair and Sky Betting and Gaming, said it had 59% more online customers than in the same period in 2019 before the coronavirus crisis.Overall, its UK and Ireland average monthly numbers grew 44% to 3.3 million customers. This outpaced revenue growth of 30% - so on average, revenue per active customer was lower, it said.Flutter has been pouring money into its US business, spending more than $1bn to date on marketing its flagship FanDuel sports betting brand.US revenues were more than $900m in the first half, putting distance between it and its main rivals, it said.The gambling giant competed its acquisition of Canadian gambling business the Stars Group on 5 May 2020.Freetrade analyst Gemma Boothroyd said the pandemic ""lent a helping hand to online betting, speeding up its transition to digital"".She said US revenue growth, which soared by 159% to Â£652m, was ""driven by six additional states legalising sports betting"".""As vaccination ramps up and Flutter's main markets return to business-as-usual, it may be ill-prepared for lockdowns easing,"" Ms Boothroyd added.Last year a House of Lords report found that there were a third of a million problem gamblers in the UK, with young people being most at risk.The amount of harm was wider, though. For each problem gambler, six were harmed by their activities. So two million people were harmed by ""the breakup of families, crime, loss of employment, loss of homes and, ultimately, loss of life"", the report said.It found that 60% of gambling companies' profits come from the 5% of customers who are already problem gamblers, or who are at risk of becoming so.A study in May this year suggested that online gambling soared in 2020 in the UK, with regular gamblers more than six times more likely to gamble online.The University of Bristol study suggested that ""although many forms of gambling were restricted, a minority of regular gamblers significantly increased their gambling and betting online"" with vulnerable groups ""worse affected"".There was also a strong link between binge drinking and regular gambling, researchers said.GamCare, which operates the National Gambling Helpline, said it had received 41,000 calls for help in the year to the end of March, a 9% increase on the previous year.It said there was a big increase in gambling due to boredom, but also more gamblers were using it as a coping strategy during the pandemic.Two thirds of the gamblers calling the helpline had debt issues, and three quarters had financial difficulties due to gambling.The most problematic online products were slots, betting, and casino games.Offline, betting in shops and gaming machines were problematic, gamblers said.Flutter said that it was developing steps ""focused on protecting those that are vulnerable without unnecessarily impinging on the freedoms of the majority of customers"".The UK government is reviewing gambling laws.",2021-08-10,business,BBC
Another big bank is mandating vaccines,"Starting September 13, employees working in the bank's New York headquarters as well as other offices in the New York metropolitan area, Chicago, Boston, Washington and Philadelphia, will need to be vaccinated and are expected in the office at least twice a week. For employees working at other branches, Citi (CPRJ) is strongly encouraging, but not requiring, vaccination. Those employees are required to wear masks and participate in company-provided rapid testing regardless of vaccination status. The bank said it is monitoring data but will not be bringing more employees back to any other corporate offices yet. Unlike other Wall Street banks, Citi's executives have been accepting of hybrid work. In March, the company recognized that hybrid work had been beneficial for some employees and promised to embrace flexibility when returning to the office.Joining the trendThe decision to mandate vaccinations adds Citi to a growing list of companies mandating vaccines for employees, and in some cases, customers.Morgan Stanley (AANXX) in June banned all unvaccinated staff, clients and guests from its New York office. All employees who work in buildings with a ""large employee presence"" were required to confirm their vaccination status by July 1, according to a company memo to employees. Jefferies (JEF) made a similar move, allowing only vaccinated vaccinated employees into the office, according to a memo the company's CEO and president sent to employees. Workers not fully vaccinated by Labor Day ""should continue to work from home,"" the memo said.Other companies mandating vaccines for corporate employees include Google (GOOG), Facebook (FB), Blackrock (BAAPX), Walmart (WMT) and Disney (DIS). Aside from just businesses, New York City is requiring proof of vaccination to enter restaurants, fitness centers and indoor entertainment, Mayor Bill DeBlasio announced August 3. ""If you're unvaccinated, unfortunately, you will not be able to participate in many things,"" de Blasio said. ""If you want to participate in our society fully, you've got to get vaccinated."" ",2021-08-10,investing,CNN
"Amazon will pay up to $1,000 in damages for dangerous items sold on its site","The company announced Tuesday that it will deal with customer satisfaction itself and go after companies afterward if third parties are unresponsive or unwilling to compensate valid claims. Amazon said the changes begin September 1 for all products sold on its website.Here's how it works: Customers can contact Amazon's customer service and they will notify the seller of the problem. If the seller doesn't respond, Amazon said it will ""address the immediate customer concern, bear the cost ourselves, and separately pursue the seller."" If the seller rejects the claim, Amazon said it might step in to help address the problem pay up to $1,000 at no cost to the seller.""This streamlined process will save time, money, and effort for both customers and sellers,"" Amazon said about its new ""A-to-z Guarantee."" That represents a shift from the current process of having buyers contact sellers directly about problems.In recent years, numerous products sold on Amazon have caught consumers' ire. For example, hoverboards, carbon monoxide detectors and faulty dog collars sold on Amazon have caused problems. That has sparked a lawsuit, called ""Oberdorf v. Amazon,"" that questions if the company can be held liable for damages caused by goods sold by third parties.Amazon (AMZN) said it's not a seller, rather just a marketplace for other sellers. ""If you purchase any of the products or services offered by these businesses or individuals, you are purchasing directly from those third parties, not from Amazon,"" according to its conditions of use. ""Amazon does not assume any responsibility or liability for the actions, product, and content of all these and any other third parties.""Now, to keep some customers satisfied and protect sellers from paying invalid claims, Amazon is assuming some of that liability.",2021-08-10,business,CNN
Meaningful ways individuals can put pressure on corporations to solve the climate crisis,"While the UN Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change report concludes that humans are ""unequivocally"" the cause of the crisis, climate experts say the onus of solving it should not rest on individuals' shoulders.Though we all should do what we can to limit our own greenhouse gas emissions, no amount of individual action — changing lightbulbs, turning up the thermostat or reducing plastic consumption — will address the magnitude of the problem, according to scientists and advocates who spoke with CNN. We need bold, global policies, they said, and lawmakers need to hold industry accountable for its role in perpetuating the crisis.Joeri Rogelj, a lead author for the UN report's chapter on global carbon cycles, says the world requires rapid change on a big scale to avoid catastrophic impacts.  ""As an individual, there are things we can do in our own lives, but they won't be sufficient to rise up to the challenge of halting climate change,"" Rogelj told CNN. ""What is really important is structural change — and that can only be achieved through long-term thinking and long-term investments and regulations."" Climate change is no longer a far off threat with nebulous outcomes. It's fueling deadly wildfires that are scorching entire towns, severe flooding and unrelenting drought that pits communities against each other.  As climate anxiety runs high, Rogelj said there are meaningful ways individuals can put pressure on corporations and policymakers to make rapid, stringent cuts on planet-heating emissions.  ""If you have savings, you can reach out to your community and put them in more environmentally friendly goals,"" Rogelj said. ""You can also talk to your decision-makers and let them know that this is an issue that you care about by writing them letters."" Lisa DeVille, an Indigenous environmental activist from North Dakota, has long leveraged environmental policies to rally her community and participate in public comment hearings about polluting infrastructure. If the climate crisis feels overwhelming, engage in the political process, she said. ""It's good to hear international scientists echoing what most of us can see with our own eyes,"" DeVille said. ""Climate change is real and that it's hurting people in our planet right now today."" Ultimately, big businesses and the fossil fuel industry need to be held accountable, according to Rogelj. Corporate change took the form of ousted board members this summer when activist shareholders replaced three people on ExxonMobil's board.  For the first time in modern history, America's largest oil company faced a credible challenge from an activist hedge fund, Engine No. 1, which was displeased with Exxon's financial performance and what it saw as the company's foot-dragging on climate. The vote was a major milestone in the climate battle. The Engine No. 1 campaign was the first proxy campaign at a major US company in which the case for change was built around the shift away from fossil fuels.  The climate crisis poses an existential threat to Exxon, one climate activists argue the company hasn't taken seriously enough. The big oil company has deployed Big Tobacco-like propaganda for decades in an effort to downplay the gravity of the climate crisis, shifting the blame to its consumers and protecting its own interests, according to a Harvard University study published earlier this year that used machine learning and algorithms to uncover trends in more than 200 public and internal Exxon documents between 1972 and 2019.In response to the study, Exxon told CNN Business in May that ""ExxonMobil supports the Paris climate agreement, and is working to reduce company emissions and helping customers reduce their emissions while working on new lower-emission technologies and advocating for effective policies.""The Harvard study, Exxon added at the time, is ""clearly part of a litigation strategy against ExxonMobil and other energy companies.""Months before the IPCC report was released, the International Energy Agency warned the world it needs to immediately stop drilling for oil and gas to prevent a climate catastrophe. The IEA report nudged companies toward renewables and urged milestones that included immediately stopping new gas and oil projects, halting the sale of new fossil fuel boilers starting in 2025 and increasing electric vehicle sales to at least 60% by 2030. The IEA also pointed to the economic benefits of focusing on climate change, emphasizing that the annual energy investment would surge to $5 trillion by 2030 from $2.3 trillion in recent years, adding 0.4 percentage points to global GDP growth. As the focus turns to the world's main greenhouse gas emitters — industrial sectors like agriculture or oil and gas — climate activists are pushing against the idea of individual actions like recycling or eating less meat.""We need to stop blaming ourselves and start holding the fossil fuel industry accountable for decades of disinformation and political sabotage,"" Jamie Henn, director of Fossil Free Media, a nonprofit media organization dedicated to the climate crisis.The concept of an individual having a ""carbon footprint"" has been emphasized in marketing campaigns designed for BP, for example, to maintain BP's image on climate change in China. In a 2007-2008 document, advertising company Ogilvy summarized the campaign: ""BP aims to be seen as an environmentally responsible company and supports efforts to reduce China's climate change impact. Encouraging environmental education among Chinese people is also a priority for BP.""Ogilvy also noted that, at the time, there had ""been over 500,000 visits to the website with 400,000 people clicking to calculate their carbon footprint.""""One thing individuals can do is look at what industries are in your backyard that you can really fight against,"" Maria Lopez-Nuñez, deputy director of the Ironbound Community Corporation, a New Jersey-based nonprofit that focuses on climate and environmental justice, told CNN.  Lopez-Nuñez's organization has engaged with policymakers on pollution issues stemming from a local trash incinerator. The Covanta Essex incinerator in Newark burns nearly 985,000 tons of trash each year, according to the company. Incinerators, which were created due to limited space in landfills, emit greenhouse gas and can aerosolize other hazardous pollutants such as mercury and lead. Lopez-Nuñez says if you want to take meaningful action on the climate crisis, do some homework on the groups active in your area.""Find frontline organizations that are in neighborhood, not just the big organizations,"" said Lopez-Nuñez. ""When you don't know what's going on, go find the people that know the issues of your neighborhood, of your cities, of your state.""  ",2021-08-10,business,CNN
Eviction moratoriums aren't enough to rescue millions of Americans behind on rent,"US health officials issued a new eviction moratorium on August 3, temporarily barring landlords from removing tenants in regions with substantial or high Covid-19 transmission rates, (which applies to most of the country). For a moment, Matthews, a 41-year-old mother of two, breathed a sigh of relief.The ban on evictions bought her and her fiancé, Karel Williams, more time — the moratorium expires on October 3 — but it didn't resolve the $5,300 in back rent she still owed her landlord, Tom Taft, Sr., owner of Taft Family Ventures, a real estate development firm based in Greenville, North Carolina.""It was kind of a breath of fresh air, but I'm not sure if it's going to save us,"" Matthews told CNN Business of the moratorium.Limits of the eviction moratoriumThe existing stay on evictions may prevent law enforcement from removing renters from homes, but it doesn't stop landlords from filing eviction requests, according to attorney Mark Fessler, head of the housing unit at South Carolina Legal Services, a non-profit law firm specializing in civil law cases for low-income communities.""That's how the courts have interpreted the moratorium and how the CDC has explained the past moratorium in briefing in federal court,"" Fessler told CNN Business on Monday.Even if renters can't be removed, eviction court filings can stain a person's financial history for years.""It can, certainly for low income individuals, [make] it harder to find other housing and either [make] that housing more expensive or [force] them into substandard housing,"" Fessler added.Matthews recently applied to receive rent relief funds through a county Emergency Rental Assistance program funded through the $46 billion Congress set aside between the December stimulus plan and the Biden administration's American Rescue Plan.As of Monday afternoon, however, her landlord had refused to fill out a document agreeing to receive funds from the program, insisting that she pay a total of $3,600 in back rent in exchange for his cooperation.""He's holding up the process for me to help get him his money,"" Matthews said of Taft on Monday.Taft had his property manager withdraw his local housing court request to evict Matthews' family on Friday when he says Matthews paid him $1,600 in back rent. He said Matthews had agreed to pay an additional $2,000 on Monday before he signs her rental assistance papers.In the past, Taft said it has taken six to eight weeks for him to receive federal rent aid funds for Matthews and he's concerned she won't have enough to pay future rent if she falls behind again. ""She's going to be in this same situation and I'm going to have a lot less patience later,"" he said. ""We work with tenants. If they honor what they say they're going to do, then we work with them.""On Tuesday, Taft agreed to fill out Matthews' paperwork even though he said Matthews didn't give him the additional $2,000 she agreed to pay in exchange for his cooperation.I'm OK with that,"" he said. ""We're going to proceed ... We'll get that done today."" Evictions hit communities of colorResearchers and South Carolina housing assistance officials say this type of rental dispute has become more commonplace in the pandemic era. Matthews and her fiancé are two of the millions of Americans who were laid off during the spring of 2020, when state and local governments across the US forced many non-essential businesses to shut down to stem the spread of Covid-19. The original eviction moratorium initiated in September of last year was extended multiple times before expiring on July 31.Today nearly 6.4 million US households now owe their landlords more than $21.3 billion in back rent, according to an estimate by the National Equity Atlas created by PolicyLink, a research institute based in Oakland, California.An estimated 19% of American households with children say they are behind on rent, and roughly 15 million Americans overall are in danger of being evicted, according to a recent study from the Aspen Institute, a policy studies nonprofit headquartered in Washington, DC.Americans of color, like Matthews and her family, will be disproportionately hurt by upcoming evictions, the institute's researchers found. About 22% of Black renters and 17% of both Latino and Asian renters say they are in debt to their landlords, compared with 15% overall, according to the report.South Carolina leads the nation, with 29% of adults saying they're behind on rent. The eviction moratoriums have left landlords and property managers with the responsibility of providing housing to millions of US renters without sufficient resources, according to Bob Pinnegar, president and CEO of the National Apartment Association, an industry group representing property owners.Taft said the moratoriums and the federal rental assistance program have left landlords like him in limbo.""I was OK with it as long as it works,"" he said of the moratorium. ""A lot of states are slow-walking these payments and less than 15-20% of the money appropriated has been spent. That's what's been going on in South Carolina. We don't have much confidence in how much money we'll get and whether we'll be made whole. ... It becomes a question of business and you can't do this forever.""Low pay, high rentThe catalyst for South Carolina's eviction crisis is a combination of too many low-wage service and hospitality jobs and relatively high rent rates, according to Brian Grady, chief research officer at the South Carolina State Housing Finance and Development Authority, known as SC Housing.Grady's agency administers home ownership and affordable rental housing programs for low- and moderate-income South Carolinians. It's also in charge of distributing a portion of the $46 billion Congress has set aside for rent aid assistance.Rent in South Carolina cities like Charleston, Columbia and Myrtle Beach may not be high when compared with markets like New York or San Francisco, but Grady says South Carolina is disproportionately populated with low-income residents.""A quarter of renter households are severely cost burdened, meaning they spend more than half their income on rent and utilities,"" Grady told CNN Business. ""There's a lot of low-wage service jobs in South Carolina and those are the kind of jobs that were most hard hit by the initial impact of the pandemic.""The information gapMatthews, who worked as a medical assistant at a doctor's office before being laid off, says not enough is being done to let people know about rental assistance programs. She only found out about the aid after searching for solutions online.""They're not promoting it enough,"" Matthews said. ""You see [news] stories about PPP more than you see emergency rental assistance. They talk about stimulus...but they don't advertise or promote the fact there's money out here to get help. These things should be plastered for people to know there's help out there for you. You just have to apply."" Matthews' fiancé, who also was laid off in March 2020, found work as a line cook at a local barbecue restaurant in May of this year. But her own job search hasn't been as fruitful, she says, despite applying for many positions. The couple used their previous rent assistance aid money and some of their stimulus check savings to pay $11,000 in back rent in March of this year, after they received their first of two eviction notices from Taft.She says she stopped receiving unemployment benefits the same month. South Carolina Gov. Harry McMaster officially ended the state's participation in federal pandemic-related unemployment benefits programs on June 30 to compel South Carolinians to return to work.""Our governor is cutting off unemployment, but he's not telling his people about the other programs that can help them with utilities, rent and things that can help them stay in their homes,"" Matthews said.SC Housing says it promotes the emergency rental assistance program through churches, food banks, community centers, local government offices, landlord and realtor associations and a network of community non-profits to educate people about available funds.""We have also advertised through direct mail, texts, TV and radio, in addition to distributing materials at special community events,"" SC Housing communications and outreach director Renaye Long said.Lawmakers in states like South Carolina need to pass suppression laws that would hide or erase eviction records for renters who were impacted by the pandemic, says Covid-19 Eviction Defense Project's executive director Zach Neumann, who co-authored the Aspen Institute study. ""That would mean they don't have to drag that anchor around for the next seven years,"" Neumann told CNN Business. "" More broadly I think you can talk about changing the way you do credit reporting in America.""",2021-08-10,economy,CNN
YouTube suspends Rand Paul for seven days,"""This resulted in a first strike on the channel, which means it can't upload content for a week, per our longstanding three strikes policy,"" the spokesperson said. ""We apply our policies consistently across the platform, regardless of speaker or political views, and we make exceptions for videos that have additional context such as countervailing views from local health authorities.""Paul criticized the decision by YouTube in a tweet on Tuesday.""Leftwing cretins at YouTube banning me for 7 days for a video that quotes 2 peer reviewed articles saying cloth masks don't work,"" he wrote, calling the suspension a ""badge of honor.""Paul's tweet included a link to watch the video on an alternate platform.YouTube indicated that examples of the offending content in the video included the line: ""Most of the masks you get over the counter don't work. They don't prevent infection."" It also included the quote: ""Trying to shape human behavior isn't the same as following the actual science which tells us that cloth masks don't work.""The suspension comes on the same day that Twitter banned Georgia Republican Rep. Marjorie Taylor Greene's account for one week following another violation of the platform's rules. Greene tweeted on Monday that the Food and Drug Administration ""should not approve the covid vaccines."" She also claimed the vaccines were ""failing"" and that they were ineffective at reducing the virus's spread.In response, Twitter (TWTR) labeled the tweet as misleading and prevented Greene from tweeting for one week.",2021-08-11,tech,CNN
DForce hacker returns $25m in 'stolen' crypto-currencies,"A mystery hacker allegedly stole $25m (Â£20m) in crypto-currencies - and then returned the funds two days later.Records show that funds in a variety of crypto-currencies were withdrawn from the DForce platform based in China. A sum of $10m was taken in Ethereum, for example, while a further $10m was taken in digital coins tied to the US dollar and $4m in other coins.Roughly the same amount has now been returned - although in a different mix of crypto-currencies.DForce is an online service that allows users to make crypto-currency transactions with one another.""The hackers have attempted to contact us and we intend to enter into discussions with them,"" wrote DForce founder Mindao Yang in a blog shortly after the attack happened, on Sunday.""This attack not only harmed our users, our partners, and my co-founders, but also me personally. My assets were stolen in this attack, too,"" he added.Mr Yang has promised a further update on the situation later today. The BBC has also contacted DForce for comment.In a technical blog about the alleged hack, blockchain security firm PeckShield explained how the attacker managed to withdraw crypto-currency by tricking the DForce system.In essence, the attacker was allegedly able to withdraw funds by convincing the system that money had been deposited, when it had in fact been siphoned away.",2020-04-21,tech,BBC
"Tesla sales cratered in China, but investors don't seem to mind","The China Passenger Car Association reported that Tesla's sales in China fell to 8,621 cars in July, down nearly 70% from June. But the export of cars built at Tesla's Shanghai plant jumped to 24,347 for July, compared with 5,017 in June. That means total sales of Chinese-built Teslas fell less than 1% overall. Critics say the steep decline of sales to Chinese consumers is yet another sign of the growing problems the company faces in the country. Tesla is contending with increased competition from Chinese EV makers as well as a run of bad publicity, including a recall of virtually all of the cars that have been built in Shanghai. The company also faced protests by Telsa owners at this year's Shanghai auto show over poor car quality and various safety concerns flagged by Chinese regulators.Teslas accounted for just 3.9% of July sales of battery electric vehicles in China, down from 12.6% in June, said analyst Gordon Johnson, who has been among the harshest critics of the company. He said that decline shows Tesla is facing fiercer competition from local EV startups.""Overall, it now seems clear that Tesla has overbuilt Chinese capacity when compared to domestic demand, which will result in further price cuts and margin pressure,"" Johnson said. ""Given China is supposed to be Tesla's 'growth market,' these numbers should concern any Tesla bull.""But Tesla (TSLA) investors seemed unfazed by the sales dip, as shares declined less than 1% Tuesday. That's in sharp contrast to the steeper drops in the stock price following similar weak reports from the CPCA in April and May.Last month investors saw that declining numbers in China didn't stop Tesla from reporting better than expected global sales for the full quarter, said Dan Ives, a tech analyst for Wedbush Securities and a Tesla bull.""I think investors are becoming less sensitive to the month-to-month China numbers,"" he said. ""Ultimately, it's not been the best indicator of Tesla's success, as we saw in the second quarter.""But Ives said that if Tesla's sales in China don't improve, the company could face serious problems going forward.""Right now we believe that China will be 40% of deliveries for Tesla by next year,"" he said. ""So selling only 8,000 in a month, even though it's a volatile number, it doesn't give the bulls the warm and fuzzies.""Unlike other automakers, Tesla does not breakdown sales by market and only reports sales quarterly, not monthly. So the numbers from the CPCA are not confirmed. Tesla did not respond to a request for comment Tuesday.-- Laura He contributed to this report.",2021-08-10,investing,CNN
This company uses technology and nature to cut your air conditioning bill,"SkyCool Systems is trying to break that vicious cycle, using technology that promises to offer buildings an alternative means to cool down by essentially mimicking how the planet cools itself.""Our planet naturally cools itself by sending heat out in the form of infrared light or radiation,"" said Eli Goldstein, SkyCool's cofounder and CEO, through a process known as radiative cooling.""We're using that effect to essentially radiate heat out and out during the day and at night, even under direct sunlight."" The five-year-old company said it does this through rooftop panels made using nanotechnology. These panels consist of an optical film that radiates infrared light and cools itself in the process. They resemble solar panels but actually do the opposite, reflecting 97% of the sunlight that hits them and cooling the surface below, according to the company.SkyCool's model involves embedding a network of pipes below those panels. These pipes are filled with water, which is kept cool by the panels and then flows into a refrigeration or air conditioning system. This process is designed to take pressure off the system's cooling mechanism. And because the panels cool naturally and don't need external power to function, it helps the entire system use less electricity. A Grocery Outlet store in Stockton, California, which has been using SkyCool's system since last year, says it saw a marked drop in its electrical bills.""After we had our SkyCool system installed, our electricity company increased their rates on us,"" Jesus Valenzuela, the store manager, told CNN Business. ""We actually didn't see our bill go up at all. In fact, we saw it go just a little bit down,"" he added. Valenzuela estimates that the panels have saved his store roughly $3,000 a month.Scientists have been researching the benefits of radiative cooling for years, including Goldstein's co-founder and UCLA professor Aaswath Raman, who is a pioneer in the field. Several solutions and models to harness the process have been proposed in recent months.But there are some challenges, including a constraint familiar to the solar industry: it doesn't work as well without sunlight.""Our technology works best in hot, dry climates where the sky is clear, so when you have clouds, that blocks that radiative cooling window,"" Goldstein said. ""In the same way that [carbon dioxide] blocks light and sort of has that heat trapping effect, water vapor also will block infrared light."" But perhaps the biggest obstacle to making the technology ubiquitous is its relatively high cost. Most radiative cooling solutions ""suffer from a high manufacturing cost and large-scale production limits,"" researchers at China's Fudan University wrote in a paper published in the journal Nature earlier this year. Goldstein declined to reveal exactly how much SkyCool's panels cost but acknowledged that they are currently ""more expensive"" than solar panels.""New technologies like radiative cooling are often more expensive,"" he said. ""People are very sensitive to first cost, and so that is another barrier to getting new things out there.""Much of that is because of low production volumes, he said. Scaling up production could help bring the cost down, Goldstein said, particularly for developing countries in Asia and Africa where SkyCool hopes to eventually expand. For now, the company is focused on commercial applications of the technology, though it hopes to start installing panels on the roofs of individual homes. It has installed panels at other locations around California, including a retail store and a data center. ""We're just excited to be able to use this new technology for good,"" Goldstein said.",2021-08-09,tech,CNN
Don't get too excited about infrastructure just yet,"A version of this story first appeared in CNN Business' Before the Bell newsletter. Not a subscriber? You can sign up right here.Those efforts always ended in failure until Tuesday, when 19 Republican senators voted with Democrats to approve a $1.2 trillion package that includes money to improve roads and bridges across the country.The House must still approve the measure, but investors are optimistic. The Dow and S&P 500 reached record highs on Tuesday after the Senate vote.Here's the thing: Money could begin to flow to shovel-ready upgrades relatively quickly, but it will take years for bigger projects to get underway. The latter category includes projects like broadband, water systems and railways.That means the immediate economic benefits will be limited.""There are typically long delays between appropriations and actual outlays when it comes to infrastructure spending; even though the bill specifies appropriation limits for five years, actual outlays may extend well beyond five years,"" analysts at Barclays wrote recently.Barclays said it expects only ""modestly stronger"" activity in 2022 and 2023 as a result of new infrastructure spending, with the biggest boost to GDP coming in 2024 and 2025. The bank upgraded its 2022 growth forecast by 0.1 percentage points to 4.1%.The good news is America doesn't have a near-term growth problem, with the economy still benefitting from massive stimulus and the ongoing return-to-work from the pandemic. In fact, the US economy is at risk of overheating.Reaction: The US Chamber of Commerce said it has been advocating for investment infrastructure for more than a decade. ""Our elected leaders are on the precipice of a historic investment in our nation's crumbling infrastructure. Turning this long-overdue promise into a reality will grow our economy and strengthen our competitiveness for decades to come,"" the powerful business lobby said in a statement.So, what will the money be spent on?$110 billion for roads, bridges and major infrastructure projects$39 billion to modernize public transit$66 billion in passenger and freight rail$17 billion in port infrastructure$25 billion on airport upgrades$65 billion to rebuild the electric grid$55 billion to upgrade water infrastructure$21 billion on environmental remediationThe list goes on, and my colleagues at CNN Politics have a full breakdown. Progress on infrastructure is one of several developments in Washington that investors should be monitoring this summer and fall. Early Wednesday, Senate Democrats approved a $3.5 trillion budget resolution, setting the stage for the party to attempt to pass a sweeping economic package that would expand the social safety net.Oh, and this: Republicans in the Senate say they won't vote to raise the debt ceiling, a mechanism that is a major source of frustration for investors. If Congress doesn't raise the debt ceiling, the federal government will likely run out of cash by October or November, risking a disastrous default.The debt ceiling is a legal limit on how much the US government can borrow, and (so far as we know) unique among developed economies. Remember: Congress has already authorized this spending!Inflation wiped out America's pay raisesCompanies big and small are raising wages to attract workers and hold onto employees as the economy revs back into gear.But those fatter paychecks aren't going as far, thanks to rising inflation, reports my CNN colleague Tami Luhby. In fact, compensation is now lower than it was in December 2019, when adjusted for inflation, according to an analysis by Jason Furman, an economics professor at Harvard University.The Employment Cost Index — which measures wages and salaries, along with health, retirement and other benefits — fell in the last quarter and is 2% below its pre-pandemic trend, when taking inflation into account. Not counting inflation, compensation rose 2.8% between March and June, despite the relatively high unemployment rate — a trend that reflects the tight labor market. Job openings are at record-high levels, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics.But at the same time, prices are soaring. Gas costs more. Food is more expensive. Car prices are at record levels. The consumer price index rose 0.9% in June and 5.4% over the past 12 months — the largest jumps for each since mid-2008.How long will the trend continue? Consumer price index data for July, which will be published at 8:30 a.m. ET, could provide clues.How to pressure companies on climateIndividuals can swap out lightbulbs, slash energy use and reduce plastic consumption. But making real progress on climate requires bold action by the world's biggest companies, report Rachel Ramirez and Alexis Benveniste.Joeri Rogelj, one of the authors of this week's landmark UN report, said the world requires rapid change on a big scale to avoid catastrophic impacts.""As an individual, there are things we can do in our own lives, but they won't be sufficient to rise up to the challenge of halting climate change,"" Rogelj told CNN Business.""What is really important is structural change — and that can only be achieved through long-term thinking and long-term investments and regulations,"" he added.As climate anxiety runs high, Rogelj said there are meaningful ways individuals can put pressure on corporations and policymakers to make rapid, stringent cuts on planet-heating emissions.""If you have savings, you can reach out to your community and put them in more environmentally friendly goals,"" Rogelj said. ""You can also talk to your decision-makers and let them know that this is an issue that you care about by writing them letters.""So, you heard the man. Get writing.Up nextEarnings from Wendy's, Canada Goose, NIO and Sonos.Also today:US CPI for July at 8:30 a.m. ET.EIA report on crude oil inventories at 10:30 a.m. ET.Coming tomorrow: US jobless claims and the producer price index for July.",2021-08-11,investing,CNN
Robinhood investors may have the last laugh after lackluster IPO,"It's way too soon to make that call. But notably, shares of Robinhood debuted at $38 — the same price as Facebook (FB) in its May 2012 IPO. Today Facebook is trading at nearly $361.Robinhood has certainly had a rollercoaster ride so far: The stock tumbled 8% on its first day and fell as low as $33.25 the second day. But it's since roared back up to more than 40% above the IPO price and is now trading around $54, even briefly hitting a high of $85 last week. It's why some observers are labeling Robinhood a so-called meme stock, even though many detractors on Reddit have bashed the trading platform for a variety of reasons including its temporary ban on customers buying GameStop (GME) stock earlier this year.""The platform that powered the meme stock movement has itself become a meme stock — sometimes to Robinood's benefit and sometimes to its detriment,"" said Jonathan Anastas, chairman of Alpha Esports Tech, a mobile gaming firm. So much for the Reddit army of ""apes"" bringing Robinhood to its knees? Perhaps. The company has been credited with — and also criticized for — helping turn investing into something like a game. But Anastas argues Robinhood is simply following the money.""They appeal to a trader demographic that is focused more on emotion and momentum,"" Anastas said. ""Robinhood is not valued on fundamentals."" Already on the hunt for acquisitionsStill, Robinhood is now a publicly traded company with a market valuation north of $45 billion and it's looking to grow its business quickly — just like Facebook did before it.The platform announced Tuesday that it is buying Say Technologies, an online shareholder communications platform geared towards individual investors, for $140 million in cash.""Like Robinhood, Say was built on the belief that everyone should have the same access to the financial markets as Wall Street insiders,"" Aparna Chennapragrada, Robinhood's chief product officer, wrote in a blog post.""We share a common goal of eliminating the barriers that keep people from participating in our financial system,"" she added.The fact that Robinhood is looking to make an acquisition so soon after its IPO is also similar to a big deal Facebook pulled off back in 2012, just before it went public: Facebook bought Instagram for $1 billion, a deal that some felt was too pricey at the time.Facebook, like Robinhood, also struggled out of the gate. In fact, it was an even bigger IPO flop as shares plunged about 50% below their IPO price in the first few months of trading before bottoming out.But CEO Mark Zuckerberg wound up having the last laugh. The Instagram acquisition helped Facebook become a bigger player in mobile and allowed it to attract even more of the young users advertisers covet. Nine years after its ""failed"" IPO, Facebook is now worth more than $1 trillion.Plenty of competition in fintech and from Wall StreetIt's hardly a given, however, that Robinhood is on track for a similar surge by 2030. Robinhood CEO Vlad Tenev, like Zuckerberg, will need to stay on top of market trends to get even bigger.""Robinhood has had a lot of naysayers but they've amassed millions of account holders and the marching orders are clear,"" said Michael Kamerman, CEO of Skilling, an online brokerage firm. ""I think Vlad wants to attract even higher net worth clients."" Robinhood will also need to fend off a large swath of competition over the next decade.Rival online trading firms ae gunning for Robinhood, including Webull and eToro, which is in the process of merging with a special purpose acquisition company (SPAC) so it too can go public.Meanwhile financial giants Charles Schwab (SCHW) and Morgan Stanley (MS) are courting retail traders more aggressively too, thanks to their respective acquisitions of online brokers TD Ameritrade and E-Trade. With that in mind, Robinhood could also one day wind up as a juicy takeover target for a larger financial firm that would probably love to get access to Robinhood's younger customer base.""Wealth has moved from boomers and Gen X to millennials and Gen Z,"" Anasta said. ""Younger investors have different preferences.""",2021-08-10,investing,CNN
Deliveroo orders double as lockdown habits endure,"Deliveroo has said demand for its services has strengthened despite Covid restrictions easing.The food delivery firm saw orders double to 148.8 million in the first half of this year, while the value of its transactions also doubled.At the same time, it narrowed its pre-tax losses to Â£104.8m, as against Â£128.4m a year earlier.It was the first set of results from the company since it floated on the stock market in March.Deliveroo initially listed on the London stock exchange at 390p a share, but the price fell sharply on the opening day of trading, 31 March.On Monday, its shares rallied on the news that German rival Delivery Hero had bought a 5% stake in the company worth Â£284m.But in Wednesday trading, it was down 3.3% at 351p.Cooped-up consumers flocked to order from Deliveroo during the earlier stages of the pandemic, when restaurants were closed and people switched to home deliveries.The firm said it expected customer behaviour to moderate later in the year, but it remained ""excited about the opportunity ahead"".It added that its outlook for the remainder of the year continued to be ""optimistic but prudent, combining confidence in continued year-on-year growth in orders with an expectation that average order values revert towards pre-pandemic levels"".Deliveroo said its gross transaction value for the six months was Â£3.4bn, a 99% rise from the same period in 2020. It repeated an earlier forecast that gross transaction value for the whole of 2021 would be 50% to 60% up on last year.Founder and chief executive Will Shu said: ""We are seeing strong growth and engagement across our marketplace as lockdowns continue to ease. ""Demand has been high amongst consumers. We have widened our consumer base, seen people continuing to order frequently and we now work with more food merchants than any other platform in the UK. ""At the same time, more riders are choosing to continue to work with the company because they value the work we offer.""By Rob Young, business correspondentFood delivery companies have been some of the standout winners of the pandemic. With people cooped up at home and dining in restaurants banned, a takeaway was for many the highlight of the lockdown week. Some analysts have questioned how much of that surge in business will persist as restaurants reopen. Interestingly, Deliveroo says orders are ""proving resilient"" since the re-emergence of the hospitality industry. But it doesn't expect that to remain the case forever. There are warnings that consumer behaviour ""may moderate"" later in the year and that the value (but not necessarily the number) of orders will return ""towards"" pre-pandemic levels. The company has diversified, though - it now delivers groceries from the likes of Waitrose, Co-op and Aldi. Chancellor Rishi Sunak has described Deliveroo as a ""true British tech success story"". By many measures, it is. But it's not yet a financial success. Despite the huge increase in business over the past year, Deliveroo still didn't make a profit. Its losses were smaller than a year ago, but the company ended the first half Â£104.8m in the red. Investors - who were lukewarm on the company's shares when they started trading in March - may be wondering: if Deliveroo can't make a profit when eating in restaurants isn't allowed, when can it?Deliveroo said it now covered 72% of the UK population. This was ahead of its plans, which had envisaged 67% coverage by the end of this year.In all, it operates in 11 countries, including Australia, Belgium, France, Hong Kong, Italy, Ireland, the Netherlands, Singapore, United Arab Emirates and Kuwait.However, it said it had now decided to pull out of Spain, because ""achieving a top-tier market position would require a disproportionate level of investment with highly uncertain long-term potential returns"".The move comes after the Spanish government announced plans to give more employment rights to workers at food delivery firms and other online services.""Deliveroo appears to be dominating the takeaway scene in many towns and cities, where its distinctive mint green-jacketed riders operate, despite Uber Eats and Just Eat rivals breathing down their neck,"" said Susannah Streeter, senior investment and markets analyst at Hargreaves Lansdown.""But investors appeared to have lost a little appetite for shares in early trading, with the company expecting customer behaviour to moderate later in the year.""She added: ""There is speculation growing that Deliveroo could potentially be a target for takeover, given the rush of acquisitions in the British market.""",2021-08-11,business,BBC
Google may cut pay of staff who work from home,"Google employees in the US who opt to work from home permanently may get a pay cut.The technology giant has developed a pay calculator that lets employees see the effects of working remotely or moving offices.Some remote employees, especially those with a long commute, could have their pay cut without changing address.Google has no plans at this time to implement the policy in the UK.Employees in many businesses have proved that working from home permanently is viable during Covid pandemic.Many companies are looking ahead to how employees will work as the pandemic recedes, even as the US continues to battle the Delta variant of the disease.Silicon Valley firms, some of which are keen to get employees back to their desks, are experimenting with employee pay structures.Big tech companies including Microsoft, Facebook, and Twitter have offered less pay for employees based in locations where it is more inexpensive to live.But smaller firms such as Reddit and Zillow have said they will pay the same no matter where employees are based, saying that this improves diversity.A Google spokesperson said: ""Our compensation packages have always been determined by location, and we always pay at the top of the local market based on where an employee works from.""Our new Work Location Tool was developed to help employees make informed decisions about which city or state they work from and any impact on compensation if they choose to relocate or work remotely."" One Google employee, who works in Seattle but has a two-hour commute, told Reuters that they would get a 10% pay cut if they decided to work from home full time. ""It's as high of a pay cut as I got for my most recent promotion,"" the employee said. ""I didn't do all that hard work to get promoted to then take a pay cut.""Jake Rosenfeld, a sociology professor at Washington University in St. Louis, said Google's move raises alarms about who will feel the impact most acutely, including families.""What's clear is that Google doesn't have to do this,"" Professor Rosenfeld said. ""Google has paid these workers at 100% of their prior wage, by definition. So it's not like they can't afford to pay their workers who choose to work remotely the same that they are used to receiving.""A Google employee in Stamford, Connecticut, which is an hour away from New York by train, would be paid 15% less working remotely, and there were 5% and 10% differences in the Seattle, Boston and San Francisco areas.Google will not change an employees pay if they work fully remotely from the same city.Some businesses, such as US technology giant Cisco, have put in place a hybrid working plan that has no mandates about how often employees go into the office.Cisco expects that less than a quarter of its workforce will want to be in an office for three or more days a week.But other firms, such as Goldman Sachs, want workers to return to offices.The investment bank's boss David Solomon in February said that working from home was ""an aberration"" rather than ""the new normal"".",2021-08-11,business,BBC
Amazon to pay out over defective third party goods,"Amazon has said it will compensate customers who suffer injury or property damage from defective goods sold by independent sellers on its US platform. From 1 September it will pay valid claims of up to $1,000 (Â£720), which make up more than 80% of injury and damage cases on its site, it said. It may also cover claims for higher amounts if sellers are ""unresponsive"".It comes as the shopping giant faces mounting pressure over product safety, following a series of court cases.In July, Amazon was sued by the US Consumer Product Safety Commission in an effort to force it to recall hundreds of thousands of goods.These included faulty carbon monoxide detectors, appliances without sufficient protection against electric shocks, and children's clothing that did not meet fire standards. More than half of the goods sold on Amazon now come via third-party vendors, but they are largely unvetted before being sold. For years, consumers have tried to hold the shopping giant to account over faulty products sold by third parties, but the firm has maintained sellers themselves are responsible - a position which has been backed by most courts. However, that has started to change in recent years following a series of high-profile court cases. In 2019, a Federal court in Philadelphia ruled that a woman blinded by a seller's retractable dog lead could restart her legal case against Amazon.She had initially wanted to sue the Nevada-based merchant but had been unable to track them down.In a blog posting, Amazon said it would use its ""advanced fraud and abuse detection systems"", as well as independent insurance fraud experts, to identify valid claims. It said this would save sellers time, money, and better protect customers. ""By standing behind customers and the products in our store, regardless of who sells them, Amazon is going far beyond our legal obligations and what any other marketplace service provider is doing today to protect customers,"" the company said.The firm also announced Amazon Insurance Accelerator, a network of insurance providers that sellers can access if they choose, and an updated policy requiring more merchants to obtain product liability insurance. The policies will launched in the US first before being rolled out elsewhere. ",2021-08-10,business,BBC
Covid: Should I be working from home or going back to the office?,"People in England are no longer being asked to work from home. Instead the Prime Minister Boris Johnson is recommending a ""gradual return to work"".However, in the rest of the UK, people are still being advised to keep working at home where possible. Employers in England were able to start planning for staff who have been able to work from home during the pandemic to return to the workplace after Covid restrictions were lifted on 19 July.The government wants to help companies which have struggled during lockdown, such as those in city centres which rely on office staff. It's also keen to cut the cost of paying furloughed staff by encouraging businesses to reopen.Most of the Covid restrictions in Scotland were lifted on 9 August as the country moved beyond the level zero rules which had been in place since 19 July.Physical distancing rules and the limits on gatherings have been removed, and all venues are allowed to reopen.However, the Scottish government is continuing to advise people to work from home where possible as part of a ""gradual approach"" to returning to offices. Most Covid restrictions in Wales were lifted on 7 August. Limits on meeting others have been removed, and all businesses can reopen. However, individual businesses - including offices and places open to the public such as pubs and restaurants - must carry out Covid risk assessments, and minimise the risk of coronavirus exposure to staff or customers, or face enforcement action.The Welsh government is also still advising that people should continue to work from home wherever possible. The Northern Ireland executive is expected to consider whether to update its guidance around working from home at its next meeting on 12 August. You can ask, but your employer doesn't have to agree. However, the Chartered Institute for Personnel and Development (CIPD) - which represents HR professionals - says there could be much greater freedom and flexibility in how, when and where people work in future.""People generally want a mix of workplace and home working, and the possibility of more choice in their working routines, meaning hybrid working can provide an effective balance for many workers.""The CIPD adds that the lifting of Covid restrictions ""shouldn't signal a mass return to workplaces,"" and ""it should be down to individual organisations, consulting with their people, to agree working arrangements"".Despite the removal of Covid restrictions in England, businesses still have a legal duty to manage risks to those affected by their business. The government's Working Safely guidance still recommends that employers carry out health-and-safety risk assessments, and take reasonable steps to minimise the risks identified. Some businesses may choose to keep some of the measures they previously had in place, such as:The legal requirement to wear a face covering in England has ended. But government guidance says it ""expects and recommends"" the continued wearing of masks in crowded areas such as public transport.Masks remain compulsory on public transport and in certain other circumstances in Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland.Regular lateral flow testing for Covid is already widespread in many sectors, and anyone in England or Scotland can also order tests directly.There's more detailed guidance for specific industries including construction, hospitality and manufacturing. Similar advice is available for employers in Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland.If employees feel unsafe, they can contact their local authority, Citizens Advice or the Health and Safety Executive (HSE). The HSE has carried more than 200,000 inspections to check companies are following Covid rules, and can force firms to take action if not. The CIPD says that employers should continue to ensure they have the necessary measures in place to give confidence to workers that their workplace is safe. ""This can include changes to desk spaces, shift patterns to help workers avoid busy times on public transport and use of one-way systems to reduce staff contact while the risk of infection remains,"" it says.Much of the risk depends on how crowded it is, and your distance from other people.Wearing a mask helps, as does keeping windows open, and avoiding peak journey times where possible.Previous advice that millions of ""clinically extremely vulnerable"" people should shield, has now ended.Many continue to work from home, but if your job cannot be done remotely, your employer can ask you to return to the workplace. However, they still have a responsibility to keep you safe, so you should raise any specific concerns you have about going back. In addition, if you are disabled, your employer has an extra responsibility to make and pay for ""reasonable adjustments"".",2021-08-10,business,BBC
Working from home job adverts rise,"There has been a rise in jobs that advertise working from home compared with before the Covid pandemic, recruitment firm Reed has told the BBC. Prior to the pandemic, 1% of recruitment firm Reed's job vacancies advertised remote working, but this rose to 5% in 2021.Many office workers shifted to flexible working during coronavirus lockdowns.Reed said applications for jobs with remote working shot up, and outpaced the number of vacancies.But the number of flexible working adverts peaked at the beginning of the year, Reed said.Jobs advertising ""dynamic"" or ""hybrid"" working - that is, where people work from home some of the time - also increased at the start of the pandemic, as did applications for them.Since then, the percentage of jobs advertising hybrid working has dropped from 9.2% in January to 5.6% in July.Reed said that this could indicate that employers have not fully embraced flexible working as a permanent feature.But it could be that dynamic working has now become more widely accepted, and companies may not advertise it, just telling people about it at interview. The recruiter also said there have been lots of adverts for roles where people need to be working ""in person""  in recent months as lockdown restrictions ease in industries such as retail, transport and logistics, as well as health and medicine sectors.Chris Adcock, managing director of Reed Technology, said: ""During the pandemic we were forced into home working, and everyone got a bit of a taste for it, and really understood the benefit it could have in their lives.""We've seen people are twice as likely to apply for a job if it's advertised as remote,"" he said.The push for home working is largely coming from younger workers, he added, although ""water cooler moments"" at the office benefit people's careers.His remarks echo those of Chancellor Rishi Sunak, who last week told LinkedIn News he doubted he would have done as well if he had started his working life virtually.The pros and cons of working from home and returning to the office has been a hot topic as the UK emerges from the pandemic. Early in June, Apple staff launched a campaign to push back against CEO Tim Cook's plans to bring all employees back into the office by early September.Reed competitor CV-Library, an independent jobs board, also told the BBC the number of roles offering remote working rose between March and July in 2021, compared to 2020.""Working from home is here to stay and jobseekers are starting to expect flexible working as the norm,"" said its managing director Matthew Moore.""If companies want to attract and retain top talent, they need to get on board or will risk losing out on the best candidates on the market.""Jenny Elliott is a copywriter at children's toy company, Capikooa. She says she was attracted to the job after graduating last July because it offered flexible working options.The firm is based in the south of England, while Jenny is based in the north. ""What was key was the remote learning and working - so it was open to people who don't live near them, which was ideal. I could get trained, and work, entirely from home despite the business being physically in Cambridge,"" she says.""With remote working, I can control the distractions around me and create the ideal environment, which you can't really do in an office. I like working in a quiet space by myself, it takes a lot of pressure off really.""Jenny says she'd like to continue working in this way.""I'm quite used to it - and although I've never worked in an office, I've really enjoyed my remote working experience.""Technology giant Cisco is rolling out a hybrid working plan that has no mandates for how often employees go into the office.The firm now expects that less than a quarter of its workforce will want to be in an office for three or more days a week.Francine Katsoudas, the chief people, policy and purpose officer at Cisco, said: ""It's going to be a big change for us.""""Despite the fact that we are a global company, that we have collaboration technology, and that we have a culture of flexibility, this is a big shift, because now all of our employees will be working hybrid, and it's not the exception any more,"" she said.""We have to change the way we meet, and the way that we work.""Teams and managers will make decisions about whether or not they need be in the office as a team on the same day, she added.",2021-08-11,business,BBC
Hackers steal $600m in major cryptocurrency heist,"Hackers have stolen some $600m (Â£433m) in what appears to be one the largest cryptocurrency heists ever. Blockchain site Poly Network said hackers had exploited a vulnerability in its system and taken thousands of digital tokens such as Ether. In a letter posted on Twitter, it urged the thieves to ""establish communication and return the hacked assets"". In scale, the hack is on par with huge recent breaches at exchanges such as Coincheck and Mt Gox.In its letter Poly Network said: ""The amount of money you have hacked is one of the biggest in defi [decentralised finance] history.""Law enforcement in any country will regard this as a major economic crime and you will be pursued. ""The money you stole are [sic] from tens of thousands of crypto community members, hence the people."" Poly Network said a preliminary investigation found a hacker exploited a ""vulnerability between contract calls"". It urged various exchanges to block deposits of the coins, after millions of dollars in tokens were transferred to separate cryptocurrency wallets.About $267m of Ether currency has been taken, $252m of Binance coins and roughly $85 million in USDC tokens. Changpeng Zhao, chief executive of Binance, said his firm was aware of the hack, but added there was only so much he could do. He said the group was ""co-ordinating with all our security partners to proactively help"".""There are no guarantees,"" he added.Poly Network is a decentralised finance - or Defi - provider, which allows users to transfer tokens tied to one blockchain to a different network.Cryptocurrency systems such as Ether and Binance were developed independently, so have struggled to work in conjunction with each other. Losses from fraud in the Defi sector hit an all-time high of $474m in the first seven months of the year, a report from research company CipherTrace said on Tuesday.But losses from crime in the overall cryptocurrency market dropped sharply to $681m, compared to $1.9bn for the whole of 2020 and $4.5bn in 2019.Last week, the US Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) charged Defi lender Blockchain Credit Partners and two of its top executives for raising $30m through allegedly fraudulent offerings. The case is the SEC's first involving securities in the Defi space.",2021-08-10,business,BBC
China tech giant Xiaomi aims at global smartphone top spot,"Chinese technology giant Xiaomi has said it plans to be the world's biggest smartphone maker within three years.The comments by the Beijing-based firm's boss come after it recently overtook Apple to become the second largest mobile brand.South Korea's Samsung Electronics currently holds the number one spot.Xiaomi's founder and chief executive Lei Jun was speaking ahead of the launch of the company's new Mix 4 handset.""Our current task is to cement the number two position in the global market,"" Mr Lei said, adding: ""We aim to become global number one in three years.""He was making his annual speech during an online event as the company celebrated the 10th anniversary of its first smartphone launch.Industry figures released last month showed that Xiaomi had for the first time overtaken US rival Apple as the world's second-biggest smartphone brand.Xiaomi accounted for almost 17% of the global handset market in the April to June quarter, topping Apple's 14.1%, according to research firm IDC.For the same period Samsung saw its market share shrink to 18.8% but held on to the number one position.Like several other major Chinese technology firms, Xiaomi was accused by Donald Trump's administration of being a threat to US national security.At the start of the year it was blacklisted by the US Department of Defense over claims that it had ties with the China's military.In May, a US federal judge blocked the enforcement of an investment ban on Xiaomi, calling the decision to blacklist it as ""deeply flawed"".Had the ban gone ahead Xiaomi would have been removed from US stock exchanges and global benchmark shares indexes.Mr Lei's speech came ahead of the launch of a wide range of new Xiaomi devices, including the Mix 4 smartphone, its latest television, tablet computer and smart speaker.It also unveiled a 'CyberDog' four-legged robot, which it described as its ""first foray into quadruped robotics for the open source community and developers worldwide.""The company invited robotics enthusiasts and ""other like-minded Xiaomi Fans"" to help develop the project.Earlier this year, Xiaomi announced plans to invest $10bn (Â£7.2bn) over the next decade to develop electric vehicles.The move sees it enter another fiercely competitive sector, with hundreds of companies in China already battling for a share of the global electric vehicle market.",2021-08-11,business,BBC
$600 million gone: The biggest crypto theft in history ,"A vulnerability in Poly Network allowed the thief to make off with the funds, the platform said Tuesday, begging the attacker to return the money. ""The amount of money you hacked is the biggest one in the defi history,"" Poly Network wrote in a letter to the attacker it posted to Twitter. ""The money you stole are from tens of thousands of crypto community members... you should talk to us to work out a solution.""Poly Network urged other members of the cryptocurrency ecosystem to ""blacklist"" the assets coming from addresses used by the attacker to siphon away the funds — which included a mix of various coins including $33 million of Tether, according to Tether's CTO. The cryptocurrency exchange Binance said it was ""coordinating with all our security partners to actively help."" Poly Network links together the blockchains of multiple virtual currencies to create interoperability among them. Following the hack, Poly Network established several addresses to which it said the attacker could return the money. And it appears the hacker is cooperating: As of 7:47 a.m. ET Wednesday, Poly Network said, it had received about $4.7 million back. It was not immediately clear who was behind the hack or why the money is being returned. Regulators have increased their scrutiny of crypto platforms as investors pour billions of dollars into digital currencies. Senator Elizabeth Warren recently asked SEC Chair Gary Gensler to investigate the SEC's ability to oversee trading on crypto platforms.In response, last week, Gensler said: ""Right now, I believe investors using these platforms are not adequately protected.""",2021-08-11,tech,CNN
Google may cut pay of staff who work from home,"Google employees in the US who opt to work from home permanently may get a pay cut.The technology giant has developed a pay calculator that lets employees see the effects of working remotely or moving offices.Some remote employees, especially those with a long commute, could have their pay cut without changing address.Google has no plans at this time to implement the policy in the UK.Employees in many businesses have proved that working from home permanently is viable during the Covid pandemic.Many companies are looking ahead to how employees will work as the pandemic recedes, even as the US continues to battle the Delta variant of the disease.Silicon Valley firms, some of which are keen to get employees back to their desks, are experimenting with employee pay structures.Big tech companies including Microsoft, Facebook, and Twitter have offered less pay for employees based in locations where it is more inexpensive to live.But smaller firms such as Reddit and Zillow have said they will pay the same no matter where employees are based, saying that this improves diversity.A Google spokesperson said: ""Our compensation packages have always been determined by location, and we always pay at the top of the local market based on where an employee works from.""Our new Work Location Tool was developed to help employees make informed decisions about which city or state they work from and any impact on compensation if they choose to relocate or work remotely."" One Google employee, who works in Seattle but has a two-hour commute, complained to Reuters of being faced with a 10% pay cut for choosing to work from home full-time. ""It's as high a pay cut as I got for my most recent promotion,"" the employee said. ""I didn't do all that hard work to get promoted to then take a pay cut.""Jake Rosenfeld, a sociology professor at Washington University in St. Louis, said Google's move raises alarms about who will feel the impact most acutely, including families.""What's clear is that Google doesn't have to do this,"" Prof Rosenfeld said. ""Google has paid these workers at 100% of their prior wage, by definition. So it's not like they can't afford to pay their workers who choose to work remotely the same that they are used to receiving.""A Google employee in Stamford, Connecticut, which is an hour away from New York by train, would be paid 15% less working remotely, while there were 5% and 10% differences in the Seattle, Boston and San Francisco areas.Google will not change employees' pay if they work fully remotely from the same city.In the UK, it's a fundamental part of employment law that employers cannot alter aspects of contracts such as rates of pay without the consent of employees, or without terminating those contracts and renegotiating them, said Emma Bartlett, a partner at employment lawyers CM Murray.From an employee perspective, it would be demoralising to be paid less for doing the same job, she said, and from a business perspective, it would have the potential to create two tiers of employment, with some employees expected to be in the office, and some not.If people stayed home working for childcare reasons, and women continue to take the main responsibility for childcare, then this could have the effect of widening the gender pay gap, she said.Workers may be treated differently in other respects, she added, and organisations would have to work hard to make sure employees were not treated differently in terms of training, promotion, and access to clients.Some businesses, such as US technology giant Cisco, have put in place a hybrid working plan that has no mandates about how often employees go into the office.Cisco expects that less than a quarter of its workforce will want to be in an office for three or more days a week.But other firms, such as Goldman Sachs, want workers to return to offices.The investment bank's boss, David Solomon, said in February that working from home was ""an aberration"" rather than ""the new normal"".The Chartered Institute of Personnel and Development (CIPD), which represents human resource professionals in the UK, said it was always ""the safest option"" for firms to seek express written agreement from employees before changing the level of their pay.In its guidance to employers, it says that imposing a pay cut is a ""high-risk"" approach, since workers can bring claims for breach of contract or even constructive unfair dismissal.",2021-08-11,business,BBC
Cracks emerge in the restaurant recovery as Delta variant rages,"And real-time economic indicators suggest the Delta variant is slowing the recovery in some of the hardest hit sectors, even though the impact is not yet being felt nationally. The findings show how even 18 months after the pandemic erupted, Covid is still calling the shots in today's economy — especially in states with lower vaccination rates. ""The next stage of the recovery requires consumers to leave the home, go on vacation, go to stores, restaurants and malls,"" said Stuart Kaiser, strategist at UBS. ""The fact they are showing less willingness to do that is a negative indicator."" Restaurants, more than almost any other industry, have already been crushed by the pandemic. A staggering 90,000 US eateries have closed permanently or long-term during the pandemic, according to estimates by the National Restaurant Association.Now the Delta variant is adding challenges to existing headaches caused by a shortage of workers and rising prices.Reservations and foot traffic slowRestaurant reservations slumped last week in states struggling with the latest Covid-19 wave. Last week, Jefferies found, restaurant reservations on OpenTable fell 20% below the same point in 2019 in five high-risk Covid states: Alabama, Idaho, Louisiana, Miss and Wyoming. That's a big reversal from early July when reservations in those states were 10% above 2019 levels. Florida — another state grappling with rising Covid-19 infections — also saw a drop in restaurant reservations.Aneta Markowska, chief economist at Jefferies, called the restaurant trend a ""yellow flag"" for the economic recovery.""Our high frequency data is suggesting that the rising Covid wave of infections is now impacting economic activities,"" UBS strategist Ajit Agrawal wrote in a note to clients late last week. Foot traffic at quick service restaurants nationally was down about 25% last week from 2019 levels, according to an analysis provided to CNN Business by research firm InMarket. That's a significant shift from the week of July 4, when foot traffic was up 35% compared with the same period in 2019.'One step forward and two steps back'The worry is that these trends could delay the badly needed recovery of the restaurant industry. There are still 1 million fewer restaurant jobs than before the pandemic, although the sector has added back jobs in each of the last three months. About 40% of small restaurant owners said they couldn't cover their rent in July, according to a survey by Alignable.""It's like one step forward and two steps back with this pandemic,"" said Carlos Gazitua, president of Sergio Family's Restaurants, which owns 13 locations throughout South Florida. There was a ""little softness"" in restaurant sales last week, he added, especially in communities with older populations. However, he said overall sales haven't taken a hit because delivery and takeout orders are up. Gazitua, who also serves as a director on the executive committee for the Florida Restaurant & Lodging Association, said there has been a welcome uptick in employees who want to get vaccinated. ""If you don't feel safe going to a restaurant, we're not doing our job and we're going to lose sales,"" he said. Warning signs for malls, air travelMalls, another part of the economy still reeling from Covid, are also getting squeezed by the Delta variant.As of last week, national mall foot traffic stood at just 53% of 2019 levels, according to InMarket. That's a sharp reversal from the week of July 4 when mall foot traffic was 4% above the same point of 2019. InMarket found similar declines in customers heading to auto dealers, big-box stores, drug stores, furniture retailers, grocery stores and home improvement retailers. All now stand well below the same point of 2019. Another potential trouble spot: Air travel.As of July 3, domestic air travel, measured by tickets issued by US travel agencies and online booking companies, stood at just 3% below 2019 levels, according to the CNN Business Economic Recovery Dashboard. However, domestic air travel has since slowed and as of July 23 was down 22% compared with the same point in 2019.As of July 23, domestic air travel from Louisiana, a state with one of the lowest vaccination rates, was down 10% compared with two years ago. That number was up 11% compared to 2019 as of July 9. Domestic air travel from Florida experienced a similar slowdown. ""Rising Covid infections seem to be affecting air travel,"" Agrawal wrote in his UBS report. UBS also found ""softness"" in credit card spending for a range of activities, including dining out, home improvement and arts & entertainment.That's why UBS's Big Data Nowcasting model is downgrading its forecasts for job growth, retail sales and industrial production further below consensus estimates. ""We notice economic activities slowing in the latter half of July, from retail sales, to services spending, to industrial activities, coinciding with the new wave of infections,"" Agrawal wrote. The last chapter of the pandemic?The good news is that the slowdown in consumer activities in high-risk Covid states does not appear to be threatening the broader economic recovery. Economists aren't worried about an imminent recession. ""What's encouraging is these impacts are very, very localized. It's really not showing up on the national level,"" said Markowska, the Jefferies economist.That's because the five states with low vaccination rates account for just 3.5% of total US GDP, according to Markowska. Of course, that's little consolation to the local restaurant owners who are struggling to pay the rent. Still, there are hopes on Wall Street that this Delta wave will peak quickly, as it has in other nations, allowing the restaurant recovery to get back on track. ""I feel like this will be relatively short-lived,"" Markowska said. ""Two months from now we will hopefully look back and say this was the last chapter in the pandemic, and now the economy can fully reopen.""",2021-08-10,economy,CNN
Southwest Airlines warns Delta variant is hurting its business,"The carrier said in a regulatory filing Wednesday that customers this month have been booking fewer flights and are increasingly canceling the trips they've already booked. That prompted Southwest to lower its operating revenue estimates for the month to 15% to 20% below what it took in in August 2019. Previous estimates called for a 12% to 17% decline from two years ago. Southwest (LUV) said it was profitable in July, but the ""recent negative effects"" of the pandemic will make turning a profit difficult in the third quarter. The airline expects September revenue will be down 15% to 25% compared to the same month in 2019, but said demand for Labor Day travel ""remains healthy, thus far."" Shares of the airline were flat Wednesday.The warning is a stark turn of events for Southwest, which predicted a few weeks ago that it would be profitable in the third and fourth quarters based of strong booking trends for leisure travel. Southwest's president Tom Nealon said in July that so far ""we have not seen any impact from the Delta variant.""The highly contagious coronavirus variant is impacting overall air travel. As of July 3, domestic air travel, measured by tickets issued by US travel agencies and online booking companies, stood at just 3% below 2019 levels, according to the CNN Business Economic Recovery Dashboard. However, domestic air travel has since slowed, and as of July 23 was down 22% compared with the same point in 2019.",2021-08-11,business,CNN
Prices are still rising. Here's what's getting more expensive,"Without including the volatile food and energy categories, consumer prices increased 4.3% in the 12-month period ending in July, slightly lower than June's increase. Overall prices rose 5.4%, the same increase seen in June.Looking at just the month of July, consumer prices rose 0.5% on the whole, less than the 0.9% increase for the prior month. Removing food and energy, prices rose 0.3% in the month of July.Here's what you need to know about what got more expensive last month. FoodIt's back to school season, but if you were counting on starting your kids' mornings with a bowl of cereal or packing a sandwich and cookie in their lunchboxes, you might be in for an expensive meal. The price of cereals and bakery products — which declined in June — rose 1.2% in July, marking the largest one-month increase since April 2020. Cookies are 1.9% more expensive. Doughnuts are 2.8% more expensive. And crackers and cracker products are up a whopping 3.7%.As usual, meat, poultry, fish, eggs and dairy got more expensive last month. In past months, one glimmer of hope in these reports has been frankfurters' prices decreasing. We hate to be the bearer of bad news, but with an increase of 4.8%, hot dogs saw the biggest price jump of any meat product in July. Pork roasts, steak and ribs also had  significant increases and are now 4.4% more expensive. Despite the frankfurter news, there are still some prices that decreased this month. If you need meat, maybe opt for ham, which is 1.5% cheaper. Fresh fruits and vegetables also got cheaper in July. Citrus fruits are now 5.4% cheaper, so load up on oranges, lemons and limes. Overall, food prices jumped 0.7% during the month of July and are up 3.4% from this time last year. Although food prices rose last month, it still might be cheaper to head to the grocery store and enjoy a home cooked meal. The price of food in restaurants or for take out rose 0.8% in July, its largest monthly increase since February 1981. Compared to this time last year, that's a 4.6% increase.GasGas prices have been on a steady uptick, recently reaching seven-year highs. Prices rose 2.4% over the month of July. Compared to this time last year, gas is more than 41% more expensive. As of Wednesday morning, the average price per gallon is $3.19, according to AAA.The Biden administration is now calling on the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries and its allies to do more to regulate rising prices as vaccines and the pandemic recovery are spiking demand for gas.ClothingClothing prices had been down since the start of the pandemic, but it seems they are rebounding as the economy continues to reopen — at least before the Delta variant hit.Although clothing prices overall didn't change in July, some categories skyrocketed. Women's dress prices rose 5.5% over the one-month period and are up 18.8% over the last year. Men's suits and sport coats increased 2.9% in July. These prices may be cheaper than before the pandemic, but as return-to-the-office plans are solidified and vaccinations continue, prices could continue to rise.If you're itching to buy something new but don't want to hurt your wallet, women's outerwear prices fell 2.6% last month and men's footwear fell 1.2%. Cars and trucksCar prices are skyrocketing. That's not exactly news — new car inventories have been strained for months because of a global computer chip shortage plus supply-chain disruptions.New vehicles were 1.7% more expensive in July. Although prices are still rising, this is a smaller increase than in June when prices rose 2%. Don't hold your breath, though. New car inventories aren't expected to begin recovering until September -— and will remain well below their pre-pandemic levels through next year, according to a recent Goldman Sachs report. Although new vehicle prices are still rising, the used car frenzy might be coming to an end. Used car prices are still up 41.7% since this time last year, but in the month of July, prices only rose 0.2%, a lot less than the 10.5% rise in June. LodgingAs more Americans have been vaccinated, travel demand has spiked, sending hotel prices through the roof. In July hotel and motel prices jumped 6.8%, a little less than June's 7.9% increase. Over the past year, hotel and motel prices have surged 24.1% thanks to increasing travel demand that has accompanied pandemic recovery. But while lodging prices increase, other travel prices that have been steadily rising dropped or grew at a much slower rate. Rental car prices, which are up a total of 73.5% since last summer, dropped 4.6% in July. And airline fares, up a total of 19% over the past year, fell 0.1% in July. ",2021-08-11,economy,CNN
"Samsung's new foldable phones are cheaper, more durable and have an under-screen camera","At its annual Unpacked event on Wednesday, Samsung will focus on its foldable smartphones instead of its flagship Note devices -- despite lackluster sales for foldable models and a PR crisis in 2019 concerning earlier versions breaking.Samsung (SSNLF) announced two new foldable smartphones coming later this month: the Galaxy Z Fold3 5G, a smartphone that opens outward like a book to form a tablet, and the clamshell-like Galaxy Z Flip3 5G, with a design reminiscent of flip phones from the early 2000s. While the company dropped the prices for its third-generation foldables, these products will still cost buyers at least four figures.Samsung said the Z Fold3 and Flip3 are slimmer, lighter, more durable and water resistant than its previous foldable models. These improvements follow hiccups in earlier versions that couldn't handle drops, dust and water, and presented significant issues with the screen. The devices also feature new ways to multitask, support for the Note's signature S Pen and an under-screen camera -- yes, a camera that lives under the screen that could someday spell the end of the hated notch.Even with those updates, Samsung has a long hill to climb. According to data from market research firm Canalys, Samsung shipped just 257,000 foldable phones in the three months ending in June, compared with nearly 58 million non-foldable phones. The company's offerings make up 66% of the total 3.4 million foldable devices shipped since 2019. As Ben Stanton, research manager at Canalys, puts it: ""It is still niche ... but Samsung envisions this as a new paradigm for the industry -- with itself at the center.""Samsung also may not have had much of a choice this year. The company has been hit with a reported delay in Note manufacturing due to the global chip shortage./ (A spokesperson told CNN Business the company's decision to focus Unpacked on foldables was unrelated to the shortage.)The Z Fold3Samsung touted the Z Fold3 as more durable and dependable than its predecessors. Its 7.6-inch Infinity Flex display is layered to protect against daily wear and tear and features scratch resistant Gorilla Glass. The outer frame is made of 10% stronger aluminum than previous models, and the infamous hinge, where the smartphone folds, is designed with shorter internal bristles to better repel dust and other particles. Those features could be key to building up trust in what is still a new design. In 2019, some early reviewers of its first foldable phone, the Galaxy Fold, reported flickering and broken displays and a screen bulge. Even after its official launch was delayed for months to address the issues, user reviews were mixed.But at least one big obstacle remains for wider adoption: the price. The new Z Fold3 is $1,799, nearly $200 less than its predecessor but still a staggering sum even compared to other premium devices. For comparison, the Samsung Galaxy S21 5G starts at $799, the Galaxy Note20 starts at $999 and the iPhone 12 Pro starts at $999. To help entice buyers, Samsung is taking a risk by trying something new with this product. In addition to the three cameras on the back (a wide angle, an ultra-wide angle and tele-photo lens), the company teased its first ever under-screen camera. The hidden front-facing camera is built under the display so a notch won't get in the way of what a user sees on screen. Considering the technology is still in its infancy, it's possible issues could surface, but Stanton said the Fold3 is the ""perfect test bed"" for this type of tech because it's more of a prestige device than a mass market product.The Fold3 also supports S Pen functionality, allowing users to make the most of its massive screen. For example, notes can be taken on one side of the device while doing a video call on the other side, or a to-do list can be checked off while reading emails. The Z Fold3 is available in black, green and silver.Z Flip3Foldable displays still lack a solid use case to make them a must-have feature in 2021, but both the Z Fold3 and Z Flip3 have elements that nod to their unique potential.The Z Flip3, which opens and closes vertically like a traditional flip phone, now comes with a thinner hinge and redesigned cover screen that is four times larger, correcting one of the biggest complaints about the Flip2. It's now easier to view notifications, widgets and messages, and users will have the ability to eyeball their schedule, purchase a coffee via Samsung Pay, check the weather and monitor their daily step count without ever opening the phone.  Flex mode lets Z Flip3 users take a photo or video from the cover screen. When kept partially folded, users can move a video to the top half of the screen and allow the bottom area to serve as a remote to control the brightness and volume. Both the Z Fold3 and Z Flip3 include partnerships with Google, Microsoft, and others, so apps better fit the screens. For example, Microsoft Outlook's dual-pane mode for Samsung foldables lets users read a full email while previewing others on the side, similar to a desktop experience. Tuong Nguyen, senior principal analyst at Gartner, said much of the success of these products will depend on the apps that developers create to showcase innovative use cases for the extra real estate a foldable screen provides. But convincing developers to spend time creating apps for foldable devices with low user adoption rates will present a challenge.""It's a bit of a chicken-egg dilemma,"" he said. The Z Flip3, which comes in cream, green, lavender and black, costs $999 -- or $400 less than last year's model, but nonetheless at the high-end for smartphones.Smartwatches and wireless earbudsIn addition to foldables, Samsung's wearables lines got a refresh on Wednesday. Its new Galaxy Watch4 and Galaxy Watch4 Classic -- the company's first smartwatches to run on the Wear OS co-created with Google -- promise an even deeper look at a user's health profile. The watches are faster, the display's resolution is crisper and the battery charges faster (the company says a 30 minutes boost will get users 10 hours of battery life). But the real innovation is packed into a new chip with three health sensors. Samsung said the sensors can now assess body composition by measuring skeletal muscle, basal metabolic rate, water retention, and body fat percentage. It also comes with advanced sleep tracking features, such as the ability to monitor snoring. The Galaxy Watch4, which features an aluminum frame, a sweat-proof sport band and a digital bezel, is available in two sizes, an assortment of colors and starts at at $249.99 for Bluetooth versions and $299.99 for LTE models. The higher-end Watch4 Classic features luxury materials such as stainless steel, and offers a rotating bezel, two size and color options. It starts at $349.99 for Bluetooth versions and $399.99 for LTE models.Samsung also unveiled its second-generation wireless Galaxy Buds2, its smallest, lightest and most affordable earbuds ($149) to date. Buds2 comes with active noise cancellation, three sizes of soft, flexible tips that users can choose find the most comfortable fit. It's available in graphite, white, olive and lavender. ",2021-08-11,tech,CNN
$600 million gone: The biggest crypto theft in history ,"A vulnerability in Poly Network allowed the thief to make off with the funds, the platform said Tuesday, begging the attacker to return the money. ""The amount of money you hacked is the biggest one in the defi history,"" Poly Network wrote in a letter to the attacker it posted to Twitter. ""The money you stole are from tens of thousands of crypto community members... you should talk to us to work out a solution.""Poly Network urged other members of the cryptocurrency ecosystem to ""blacklist"" the assets coming from addresses used by the attacker to siphon away the funds — which included a mix of various coins including $33 million of Tether, according to Tether's CTO. (In a statement, Tether later said it froze the assets within 20 minutes of learning of the attack.) The cryptocurrency exchange Binance said it was ""coordinating with all our security partners to actively help."" Poly Network links together the blockchains of multiple virtual currencies to create interoperability among them. Following the hack, Poly Network established several addresses to which it said the attacker could return the money. And it appears the hacker is cooperating: As of 7:47 a.m. ET Wednesday, Poly Network said, it had received about $4.7 million back. It was not immediately clear who was behind the hack.By noon, much more money, about $261 million, had been returned, according to the blockchain forensics firm Chainalysis. In notes appended to some of the transactions, Chainalysis said, the attacker claimed to have hacked Poly Network ""for fun :)"" and that he or she undertook the attack as a challenge. ""I take the responsibility to expose the vulnerability before any insiders hiding and exploiting it!"" the attacker wrote. ""I understood the risk of exposing myself even if I don't do evil. So I used temporary email, IP or _so called_ fingerprint, which were untraceable. I prefer to stay in the dark and save the world.""Once the hack had gained the world's attention, there was virtually no way for the hacker to safely withdraw the funds, Chainalysis said, because every transaction is recorded and traceable.""With the inherent transparency of blockchains and the eyes of an entire industry on you, how could any cryptocurrency hacker expect to escape with a large cache of stolen funds?"" the company wrote in its report. ""In most cases, the best they could hope for would be to evade capture as the funds sit frozen in a blacklisted private wallet.""Regulators have increased their scrutiny of crypto platforms as investors pour billions of dollars into digital currencies. Senator Elizabeth Warren recently asked SEC Chair Gary Gensler to investigate the SEC's ability to oversee trading on crypto platforms.In response, last week, Gensler said: ""Right now, I believe investors using these platforms are not adequately protected.""",2021-08-11,tech,CNN
How Wendy's plans to keep you coming back for breakfast,"The company announced on Thursday that it will spend an additional $10 million to advertise breakfast this year, bringing its overall spending on breakfast ads to $25 million in 2021.The investment is designed to get more people to try items from the breakfast menu, and convince people that when they go back to work or drop their kids off at school, they should make a pit stop at Wendy's (WEN). ""Whatever that routine is, we need to be part of it,"" said CEO Todd Penegor during a Wednesday analyst call discussing the company's second quarter financial results. ""That's why we're putting [an] additional $10 million of advertising to work, to make sure that that message is loud and clear."" McDonald's has long led the market in breakfast. But in recent years, competition has been heating up, with more restaurants trying to get a piece of that part of the day. Dunkin' has tested out healthier options and launched a plant-based breakfast sandwich, while Taco Bell tries to lure people in with breakfast tacos, burritos, and quesadillas.Wendy's was late to the game. It launched a national breakfast menu in March 2020, just before parts of the United States shut down because of the pandemic.Now, the company sees ""opportunities to have fun, trial-driving events to get our food in our consumers' mouths,"" Penegor noted. One example? This weekend, Wendy's is giving away free croissant breakfast sandwiches.Honey butter chicken biscuits and two for $4 dealsWendy's said in late 2019 that it planned to hire 20,000 people as part of the initiative, and invest $20 million in breakfast. At the time, critics were skeptical that the big breakfast bet would pay off. Wendy's had tried to launch breakfast in the past, but those attempts were unsuccessful. Last year, breakfast sales slumped in the industry because of pandemic-driven disruptions to people's morning routines. But Wendy's said last year that breakfast was performing well, a trend that continued into 2021. ""In the second quarter, our breakfast sales accelerated as expected, growing 10% over the first quarter,"" Penegor said. The chain's $1.99 Honey Butter Chicken Biscuit and two for $4 breakfast deal helped drive the growth, he added, saying that ""these promotions have been critical to our success as we continue to see very strong customer repeat and high customer satisfaction after people try our breakfast."" Wendy's didn't compare breakfast sales in the second quarter to the same period last year. In the second quarter, breakfast sales contributed to a 16% spike in US restaurants open for at least 15 months compared to the same period in 2020. Growth was nearly 12% compared to 2019, before the pandemic.With the additional advertising money, the chain is ""confident"" that it can increase breakfast sales by 30% in 2021, Penegor said. He added that by the end of next year, about 10% of Wendy's sales should come from breakfast. ",2021-08-11,business,CNN
These foods disappeared from grocery stores last year. Now they're back ,"All are examples of food that consumer goods manufacturers stopped making in 2020. So unless there was an old jar or can left over, these items and others disappeared from the store. And while it was generally lesser-loved fare that evaporated, depending on how big a fan you were, you may have been sorely disappointed to leave empty-handed. The good news is that many items that went away are back. The average number of different products sold in grocery stores tracked by Nielsen increased 2.5% to 19,285 items during the 13 weeks ending July 31 compared to the same stretch last year. During that period in 2020, the average number of items at stores declined 4.5% from 2019, according to Nielsen. At the height of the pandemic last year with restaurants closed and grocery demand soaring, consumer goods manufacturers simplified their supply chains by paring down product offerings and speeding up production lines on their most popular items. This improved companies' ability to meet demand on key goods but meant that consumers had fewer choices on the shelves when they rushed in to stock up on groceries.Now, companies have shifted back to expanding their variety again to drive sales. ""The death of variety that everyone was predicting didn't happen. It has come back in full force,"" said Krishnakumar Davey, president of IRI's strategic analytics practice. ""People are sick and tired of seeing the same products.""Hot sauce and sardines: What's new and what's made a comebackIn order to meet the surge in demand last year, spice maker McCormick ""temporarily suspended production of many secondary products to ensure availability of top selling [items],"" a spokesperson for the company said in an email. McCormick (MKC) has since reinstated all of the items it pulled back on, although it did not say which, and added new lines of Frank's hot sauces, Cholula wing sauces and Grill Mates seasoning blends.J.M. Smucker (SJM) last year ""temporarily scaled back production"" on peanut butter varieties, such as Simply Jif, Reduced Fat and Omega 3. It also cut back on flavors for Smucker Uncrustables —  a line of frozen sandwiches and pockets — such as hazelnut, honey, peanut butter and reduced sugar flavors. The company also paused planned product launches.But Smucker has resumed normal production levels and added those products back. It's now focusing again on product launches, such as recent introductions of Jif Natural Squeeze peanut butter and Smucker's Uncrustables' kids snacks.Early in the pandemic, General Mills (GIS) chose to prioritize ""producing and maintaining inventory of our most popular flavors while withdrawing items that are important for variety, but would have added short term complexity,"" said Kelsey Roemhildt, a spokesperson for the company. For its Progresso Soup line, for example, the company minimized the variety from 90 different items to 50. It has since reintroduced those items back to the market, she said.Some of that has to do with increased demand for packaged food with more people working from home instead of offices. ""It's important that we deliver additional solutions for lunchtime and away-from-home snacking,"" she said.Dan Hofmeister, senior vice president of brand marketing at tuna-maker Bumble Bee, said in an email that its item count has grown 36% to 307 different items since cutting down to a low of 225 last year.""As demand begin to normalize, we began phasing in temporarily suspended"" items, Hofmeister said. Bumble Bee has recently launched new lines of tuna snacks and bowls, as well as white Albacore in olive oil and new sardine lines. Grocery stores also say they are receiving more options from manufacturers to stock their shelves.""Manufacturers are starting to dial up again with innovation and product assortments,"" Lauren DeVol, a spokesperson for SpartanNash (SPTN), which owns Family Fare, Martin's and other supermarket chains in the Midwest, said in an email.The company is seeing the most variety expansion in baking, dairy, frozen meals and salty snacks and candy, DeVol said.""Increased snacking at home is driving the need for innovation as consumers want to try new snacks and treats,"" she said.Other new items that are getting rolled out: PepsiCo (PEP) recently added Mtn Dew Rise, a caffeinated energy drink the company says is intended for morning consumers, while General Mills has introduced Trix and Cocoa Puff oatmeal cereal and Nature Valley muffins. Bumble Bee launched 3 Quick Catch Tuna Bowls blending tuna, rice, and veggies, and spice-maker McCormick debuted Frank's frozen appetizers and Frank's garlic and mild wing sauces. Danone (DANOY) added Evian+ sparkling water.All in all, the variety for many staples at the grocery store has expanded. The average number of salty snacks at stores grew 10.9% during the three months ending July 11 compared to the same period last year, according to the latest data from IRI. The selection of energy drinks increased 11.5%, pre-mixed cocktails jumped 79.2%, and pastry items gained 14.8% during the stretch.",2021-08-11,business,CNN
Cryptocurrency heist hacker returns $260m in funds,"The hacker behind one of the largest ever cryptocurrency heists has returned almost half of the $600m (Â£433m) stolen assets.On Tuesday, blockchain platform Poly Network wrote a letter on Twitter, asking the individual to get in touch ""to work out a solution"". The website said the amount of money hacked was the biggest incident so far in the decentralised finance industry.But at 18:28 BST on Wednesday, Poly Network said it had received $260m.Poly Network posted on Twitter that it had been sent digital tokens relating to three crypto-currencies, including $3.3m worth of Ethereum, $256m worth of Binance Smart Chain (BSC) and $1m worth of Polygon.A total of $269m in Ethereum tokens and $84m in Polygon tokens has yet to be recovered. The hacker also took to one of the blockchains to publish a three-page-long Q&A session, where he essentially ""interviewed himself"", according to Tom Robinson, co-founder of Elliptic, a London-based blockchain analytics and compliance firm.The hacker said that he decided to return the stolen assets because he is ""not very interested in money"". ""I know it hurts when people are attacked, but shouldn't they learn something from those hacks?"" he wrote in the notes posted to the blockchain.The hacker added that it had taken him all night to find a vulnerability to exploit. He said he was worried that Poly Network would patch the security flaw quietly without telling anyone, so he decided to take millions of dollars in cryptocurrency tokens to make a point. But he stressed that he did not want to cause a ""real panic [in] the crypto-world"", so he only took ""important coins"", leaving behind Dogecoin, the cryptocurrency that started off as a joke. ""Either they just intended to commit theft and steal the assets, or they were acting like a white hat hacker to expose a bug, to help Poly Network make themselves more strong and secure,"" Mr Robinson, who routinely advises governments and law enforcement agencies about crypto-related crimes, explained to the BBC.He added that the nature of blockchain technology makes it hard for cyber-criminals to profit from stealing digital currencies, because everyone can see the money being moved across the network into the hackers' wallets.""I wonder whether this hacker stole the funds, realised how much publicity and attention they were getting, realised wherever they moved the funds they would be watched, and decided to give it back,"" said Mr Robinson.""The blockchain itself has operated here flawlessly, but the problem is on blockchains like Ethereum, you can write your own smart contracts. Various services have started offering this, including Poly Network. ""So whenever a human being writes code, there's a chance they will make a mistake.""A blockchain is a ledger, or log, of every single transaction made of a cryptocurrency, such as Bitcoin. The ledger is distributed to all the users in the network to verify all new transactions when they occur, instead of being held by any one single authority.Poly Network's platform works by facilitating movement between several blockchains when people trade one crypto-currency for another, such as trading BSC for Ethereum.""The Poly Network is the thing that facilitates the movement between these chains - ultimately, it's software, it's code, and code always has imperfections and defects in it,"" James Chappell, co-founder of London-based cyber-security firm Digital Shadows told the BBC.""And that's true of banks, or any financial system. Unfortunately, what seems to have happened here is a party has spotted a weakness in the implementation and exploited it to fool the network into transferring these tokens incorrectly.""Similar attacks to the Poly Network case have occurred in the last 12 months to several other services, including Yearn Finance, which had $11m stolen by hackers in February; Alpha Finance, which had $37m stolen in the same month; and Meerkat Finance, which was drained of $32m by hackers in March. After a rollercoaster 24 hours for the crypto community it looks like the hacker intends to return all or most of the stolen money.  As the criminal posted online: ""The pain suffered is temporary but memorable.""Their claim that it was all an elaborate way to force Poly Network to fix security failings is being treated with scepticism.Why the taunting and boasting online if the motive was honourable? There's some suggestion that the net may have been closing in, as one cyber-security company says it was close to working out the identity of a suspect. It might have been the case that the hacker bit off way more than they could chew and got scared, so returned the money.Regardless, the authorities will still no doubt be working hard to find them.But what this story mostly points to is just how powerful hackers can be and how powerless the unregulated, decentralised cryptocurrency world is when someone swipes a large fortune from under its nose.",2021-08-12,business,BBC
China says crackdown on business to go on for years,"The Chinese government has unveiled a five-year plan outlining tighter regulation of much of its economy.It says new rules will be introduced covering areas including national security, technology and monopolies in the world's second largest economy.The plan comes soon after Beijing started targeting the technology and education industries.The document references Chairman Mao as China celebrates the 100th anniversary of the nation's Communist Party.The 10-point plan, which runs to the end of 2025, was released jointly late on Wednesday by China's State Council and the Communist Party's Central Committee.It said laws will be strengthened for ""important fields"" such as science and technological innovation, culture and education.The plan also said the Chinese government aims to tackle monopolies and ""foreign-related rule of law"".Regulations relating to China's digital economy, including ""internet finance, artificial intelligence, big data, cloud computing etc."" will also be reviewed.The announcement raised fresh concerns that Beijing's crackdown on technology and private education companies is set to continue and expand in years to come.Shares in many Chinese companies listed in the US, Hong Kong and mainland China have fallen sharply this year as investors' concerns grow over the crackdown.Beijing has already launched anti-monopoly investigations into some of the country's biggest technology firms and taken action against a wide range of other businesses.In April, technology giant Alibaba accepted a record $2.8bn (Â£2bn) fine after an investigation found that it had abused its dominant market position for years.Last month, Tencent was told to end exclusive music licensing deals with record labels around the world.Also in July, some of the country's biggest online platforms - Kuaishou, Tencent's messaging tool QQ, Alibaba's Taobao and Weibo - were ordered to remove inappropriate child-related content.This week, Chinese authorities said they had increased their scrutiny of after-school tuition services offered by individual teachers.During a recent inspection, one person and six institutions were punished for offering unlicensed after-school tutoring that broke regulations, the Beijing Municipal Education Commission said in a statement Monday.The move came as tutoring firms had changed how they operated after a government crackdown on the industry. Last month, Beijing unveiled a massive overhaul of China's $120bn private tutoring sector, under which all institutions offering tuition on school curricula will be registered as non-profit organisations.The new rules said: ""Curriculum subject-tutoring institutions are not allowed to go public for financing; listed companies should not invest in the institutions, and foreign capital is barred from such institutions.""Meanwhile, this week China's banking and insurance watchdog stepped up its regulation of online insurance companies, according to the Caixin news agency.The China Banking and Insurance Regulatory Commission ordered the firms to stop improper marketing and pricing or face ""severe punishment.""",2021-08-12,business,BBC
Boohoo boss: 'We're not a throwaway fashion brand',"The boss of fast fashion online retailer Boohoo has insisted its clothing brands are ""not throwaway"". In an exclusive interview with BBC Radio 5 Live's Wake Up to Money podcast, John Lyttle said Boohoo had a ""clear strategy"" for being more sustainable.""We're here because people want to wear clothes, they have to be supplied,"" he told the BBC.""We're trying make the journey as sustainable as possible,"" he added.However, sustainability targets the company has set itself could take some time to meet, he said, adding there were ""lots of pieces still to answer.""""20% of all our ranges will be sustainable this autumn... 40% next spring/summer,"" said Mr Lyttle.""They're not going to be fixed in six and 12 months... It's the same 2030 timeframe as combustible engines.""Boohoo owns 13 brands: Boohoo, BoohooMan, Coast, Karen Millen, Dorothy Perkins, Warehouse, Oasis, Wallis, Burton, Debenhams, PrettyLittleThing, NastyGal and MissPap.Mr Lyttle, a former chief operating officer at Primark, defended Boohoo's ultra-low advertised prices for its clothing: ""We're not down in the cheap end. Even on our lower price brand our selling price is higher.""He added: ""Our data doesn't suggest people are buying every day or buying once and wearing something new.""Labour MP and Environmental Audit Committee chairwoman Mary Creagh said Boohoo's environmental policy claims and 20% sustainability target amounted to ""greenwashing"".""We've consistently seen them play cat and mouse with lawmakers and public opinion on the issue of sustainable working practices and sustainable consumption,"" she said.""Boohoo in particular has to reduce the volume of clothes it makes and accurately price their garments to reflect the environmental cost of fashion production.""Meanwhile Noelle Hatley, senior lecturer in fashion business at Manchester's Fashion Institute, said brands were able to use the term ""sustainable"" because there is ""no industry-wide agreement on its meaning"".""40% is a reasonable target, but it all hinges on what they mean by sustainable and how much information they will actually share with the customers,"" she stressed.Boohoo was founded in 2006 in Manchester by Mahmud Kamani and Carol Kane. By 2020, the company had hit sales of Â£1.2bn and boasted a 5,000-strong workforce. The aim of the venture was to use the internet to ""cut out the middle man"" in retail. As well as facing questions about the environmental impact of Boohoo's fast-fashion business model, there have been accusations of widespread abuse of employment law at some of its suppliers in Leicester.Investigations last year suggested workers were being paid below the minimum wage amid unsafe working conditions.Subsequently, an independent review into the retailer concluded that there were ""many failings"" in the way Boohoo managed its supply chain. ""We were very upset about it,"" Mr Lyttle said. ""It's not the culture of our business, it's not how we look after our staff.""We want to make sure everything is proper and done in the right way.""The crisis led to calls for his resignation, but he says this would not have been the right approach to take.""If I'd have resigned, it would have set it back - in terms of time - to do what we needed to do,"" he stressed.He added that Boohoo had ""not seen evidence"" of workers being paid under the minimum wage, but the company could ""level up our audit and investigation to ensure those workers are getting paid"".Boohoo is now creating five thousand new jobs across the country, including at a warehouse in Burnley, as well as more roles at its Manchester headquarters. Mr Lyttle said consumer habits had changed during the Covid-19 pandemic, prompting the company to hire more staff.""We need efficiency and speed,"" he added. ""Immediacy is the biggest trend in the last 18 months and that's getting greater and greater. Consumers drive the trends.""You can download the full podcast on Thursday 12 August. The interview will also be broadcast during Wake Up to Money on BBC Radio 5 Live from 05:00 BST on Thursday 12 August.Interview by Sean Farrington, additional reporting by Elisabeth Mahy.",2021-08-12,business,BBC
China cracks down on celebrity online culture,"Sina Weibo - China's Twitter equivalent - is to remove an online celebrity list following criticism by state media of celebrity culture on social media.State-owned newspaper People's Daily criticised platforms that make stars out of ""unworthy individuals"".It did not specify any companies but the article comes during a wider crackdown on online firms in China.Weibo said its decision was due to what it described as ""irrational support"" some fans were showing for celebrities.Earlier this week Economic Information Daily, also run by the state, hit out at games firms, saying that many teenagers had become addicted to online gaming. Shares in Tencent and NetEast fell by more than 10%. in the wake of the criticism.The article in the People's Daily argued that teenagers were hugely influenced by social media and often chose the celebrities they followed based on their popularity on online platforms.Weibo's list ranked stars on the popularity of their social-media posts and the number of follows they received.Other platforms that allow fans to interact with celebrities include Bilibili, Kuashou and ByteDance-owned Douyin, the Chinese version of TikTok.One of China's biggest celebrities, pop star Kris Wu, was arrested at the weekend on suspicion of rape, accused of deceiving young women into having sex. He denies all the allegations.There have been increased concerns in China's media about the influence that celebrity culture has on young Chinese. Concerns were raised earlier this year by officials at China's Two Sessions, one of the most important annual events in the government calendar. There has been growing concern that fan clubs can mobilise, either in person or online, to stage protests for their favourite stars. Chinese news website Sixth Tone has recently also noted a trend of influencer agencies ""hiring click farms"" to artificially inflate the presence of popular figures.  With the recent detention of popular Chinese singer Kris Wu, media platforms have gone all out to remove fan clubs associated with the artist, and his music has been pulled from online streaming services. State media have urged a broader rectification of ""fan culture"", and social-media platforms like Sina Weibo know that, as safe spaces for young people, they have to ensure that their platforms represent socially responsible role models. Beijing wants to ensure that young people are getting a healthy message online from ""wholesome"" role models. However, a message is also being delivered that the fans themselves need to act appropriately. A year on from the coronavirus outbreak, media outlets tell fans that they can no longer organise huge gatherings in support of their idols, and that they should refrain from mobilising to post abuse at stars they don't like. ",2021-08-06,tech,BBC
Quarantine hotel rules face legal challenge,"A law firm representing travellers is challenging the UK's quarantine hotel policy and seeking a judicial review.Currently, passengers must spend 11 nights in quarantine hotels on returning from red list countries, despite being fully vaccinated and testing negative for Covid.London-based firm PGMBM says this is an ""unlawful deprivation of liberty"".On Thursday, the cost of staying in a quarantine hotel jumped from Â£1,750 to Â£2,285.The firm has begun legal proceedings. PGMBM managing partner Tom Goodhead said: ""Mandatory hotel quarantine is a fundamental breach of human rights. It has led to the false imprisonment of people who are fully vaccinated and have tested negative.""Prisoners are entitled to more liberty than those forced to quarantine in hotels.""More than 60 locations including Turkey, Mexico, Kenya and many countries in Africa are currently on the red list. The other European countries with mandatory quarantine involving hotel detentions - Ireland and Norway - have amended their schemes so fully vaccinated travellers are exempt from needing to quarantine.The legal team are seeking compensation, not only for those they represent, but also for anyone who has been double jabbed in the UK and has stayed at a quarantine hotel. In addition to compensation for the breach in human rights, the law firm is also seeking refunds of the cost of the quarantine hotel stays.This is the second case PGMBM has brought about quarantine hotels. The first was on the grounds of financial hardship and resulted in the government offering the option to pay in 12 monthly instalments for those facing financial hardship.""We want to see this draconian policy scrapped and those affected to be properly compensated,"" he continued. Mr Goodhead added that the majority of the people who get in touch with the law firm are not travelling to or from red list countries for holidays or for leisure.""They are often travelling for emergency or urgent reasons and would not be travelling unless they felt it was absolutely necessary,"" he explained. ",2021-08-12,business,BBC
Google may cut pay of staff who work from home,"Google employees in the US who opt to work from home permanently may get a pay cut.The technology giant has developed a pay calculator that lets employees see the effects of working remotely or moving offices.Some remote employees, especially those with a long commute, could have their pay cut without changing address.Google has no plans at this time to implement the policy in the UK.Employees in many businesses have proved that working from home permanently is viable during the Covid pandemic.Many companies are looking ahead to how employees will work as the pandemic recedes, even as the US continues to battle the Delta variant of the disease.Silicon Valley firms, some of which are keen to get employees back to their desks, are experimenting with employee pay structures.Big tech companies including Microsoft, Facebook, and Twitter have offered less pay for employees based in locations where it is more inexpensive to live.But smaller firms such as Reddit and Zillow have said they will pay the same no matter where employees are based, saying that this improves diversity.A Google spokesperson said: ""Our compensation packages have always been determined by location, and we always pay at the top of the local market based on where an employee works from.""Our new Work Location Tool was developed to help employees make informed decisions about which city or state they work from and any impact on compensation if they choose to relocate or work remotely."" One Google employee, who works in Seattle but has a two-hour commute, complained to Reuters of being faced with a 10% pay cut for choosing to work from home full-time. ""It's as high a pay cut as I got for my most recent promotion,"" the employee said. ""I didn't do all that hard work to get promoted to then take a pay cut.""Jake Rosenfeld, a sociology professor at Washington University in St. Louis, said Google's move raises alarms about who will feel the impact most acutely, including families.""What's clear is that Google doesn't have to do this,"" Prof Rosenfeld said. ""Google has paid these workers at 100% of their prior wage, by definition. So it's not like they can't afford to pay their workers who choose to work remotely the same that they are used to receiving.""A Google employee in Stamford, Connecticut, which is an hour away from New York by train, would be paid 15% less working remotely, while there were 5% and 10% differences in the Seattle, Boston and San Francisco areas.Google will not change employees' pay if they work fully remotely from the same city.In the UK, it's a fundamental part of employment law that employers cannot alter aspects of contracts such as rates of pay without the consent of employees, or without terminating those contracts and renegotiating them, said Emma Bartlett, a partner at employment lawyers CM Murray.From an employee perspective, it would be demoralising to be paid less for doing the same job, she said, and from a business perspective, it would have the potential to create two tiers of employment, with some employees expected to be in the office, and some not.If people stayed home working for childcare reasons, and women continue to take the main responsibility for childcare, then this could have the effect of widening the gender pay gap, she said.Workers may be treated differently in other respects, she added, and organisations would have to work hard to make sure employees were not treated differently in terms of training, promotion, and access to clients.Some businesses, such as US technology giant Cisco, have put in place a hybrid working plan that has no mandates about how often employees go into the office.Cisco expects that less than a quarter of its workforce will want to be in an office for three or more days a week.But other firms, such as Goldman Sachs, want workers to return to offices.The investment bank's boss, David Solomon, said in February that working from home was ""an aberration"" rather than ""the new normal"".The Chartered Institute of Personnel and Development (CIPD), which represents human resource professionals in the UK, said it was always ""the safest option"" for firms to seek express written agreement from employees before changing the level of their pay.In its guidance to employers, it says that imposing a pay cut is a ""high-risk"" approach, since workers can bring claims for breach of contract or even constructive unfair dismissal. Rachel Suff, senior employment relations adviser at the CIPD, said: ""Rather than making sweeping decisions on issues like pay and how, where and when people work, businesses should aim to balance individual needs with the needs of the organisation. ""It would be quite near-sighted for employers to think about adjusting pay at this early point in hybrid working, given there are so many things to still be ironed out and many people are still yet to return to a physical workspace.""Given the tight labour market, businesses also need to stay attractive and cutting pay could prove to be a false economy if it turns talent away.""",2021-08-11,business,BBC
UK economy grows by 4.8% but misses forecasts,"UK economic growth rose by 4.8% between April and June, according to official figures, falling short of Bank of England forecasts.Data from the Office for National Statistics showed that the expansion in gross domestic product (GDP)was uneven over the second quarter.  The Bank of England said it expected GDP to rise by 5% over the period when most of the economy reopened.Accommodation and food services surged, as did retail, helped by Euro 2020.The growth in activity, fuelled by the easing of social distancing restrictions, was strongest in sectors hard-hit under lockdowns such as wholesale and retail, hotels and restaurants.  The ONS also said education output jumped during the second quarter as schools reopened.However, vehicle production tumbled by 16.7%, which the ONS said was because of ""a global semiconductor shortage"".The UK economy is now 4.4% smaller than it was before the pandemic. The ONS said that growth expanded by 1% in June, but revised down the figure for May from 0.8% to 0.6%. The growth was in line with economists' average forecast, but slightly less than the Bank of England anticipated.At the end of the quarter in June, the monthly growth is estimated at 1%, slightly more than most economists expected. ",2021-08-12,business,BBC
How we can all get more high-quality sleep,"Nicole Baker is one of the many people who have struggled with insomnia since the start of the coronavirus pandemic.""I went from someone who can drop asleep at 9pm everyday, to being awake at 3am every night,"" she says. ""It was draining and really worrying, as during the day I would really struggle to stay focused.""Ms Baker, who works as a facilities coordinator, put her sleep issues down to increased anxiety.""I felt that the constant worry of Covid-19 death rates, job security, my family, not being able to have the freedom of travelling, and the uncertainty of the future, really put great amounts of stress and anxiety on my mind,"" she says.""My mind was in absolute overload, constantly running and worrying about life 24/7, making it impossible for me to sleep at night.""In the UK, the number of people experiencing insomnia rose from one in six before the pandemic, to one in four during it, according to a study last year by the University of Southampton.Meanwhile, the word ""insomnia"" was Googled in the US in 2020 more than ever before.As well as increased general stress and anxiety levels, a rise in sleep problems has been put down to other factors caused by the pandemic - such as the enforced changes to daily routines and social lives. With tired staff less productive, the pandemic has led to a number of companies focusing on helping their employees get a better quantity, and quality, of sleep. Ms Baker's employer, a London-based marketing firm called MVF, is one such business.When the pandemic hit, MVF expanded its wellbeing support for employees, to offer mental health coaching sessions and workshops focused on sleep, along with free subscriptions to the meditation app, Headspace. Ms Baker says the extra support has helped her insomnia. ""[The resources] helped me learn to recognise and manage how the pandemic has affected me and the people around me, and put my mind at ease a little, which is a big relief,"" she says.Katie Fischer, a sleep coach and founder of Circadian Sleep Coaching, works with businesses to provide support to employees. Along with the increase in anxiety, being stuck inside during lockdown has been a contributor to the rise in sleep disruption, she says.""Many people have been sleeping later [in  the day] because they are getting outside less,"" she says. ""They are less active and finding it really hard to decompress at the end of the day. ""It's hard not having that commute, that demarcation that frames the day, gets you up and out into the daylight.""Global advertising company GroupM is one of the businesses that Ms Fischer works with, providing one-to-one sleep-coaching sessions for its employees.GroupM had already been running a sleep-coaching service for parents of young children on its staff, but during the pandemic it expanded the service to all employees.In these sessions, Ms Fischer assesses a person's health background, personal circumstances, and the reasons behind their challenges with sleep, to help come up with ways to resolve them.Jennifer Harley, people business partner at GroupM, says that sleep support will continue to be a critical aspect of the company's health and wellbeing programme. ""When we don't have enough sleep, we don't bring our best selves to work, so we need to invest in wellbeing,"" she says. ""Businesses should care about the impact of having people who are happy, healthy and well slept.""Even before the pandemic, sleep-deprived workers cost the UK economy up to Â£40bn a year, due to tired employees being less productive, or absent from work altogether, according to a 2016 study from research firm Rand Europe.With many companies set to adopt a hybrid-working model as the world slowly returns to normal after the pandemic - allowing their staff to continue to work from home part of the time -  Ms Fischer advises that businesses check in regularly with employees.She says firms should set parameters around work and home life, and encourage people who are not working in the office to have a regular routine.""Some companies try to preserve that opportunity at the end of the day for employees to wind down and relax, so they can support that ability to fall asleep and start afresh the next day,"" says Ms Fischer.She also advises that people stick to a regular wake-up time in the morning, regardless of whether they are working from home that day, or going into the office, to promote better quality sleep.New Economy is a new series exploring how businesses, trade, economies and working life are changing fast.Max Kirsten, a hypnotherapist and sleep coach, adds that many of the bad habits people have fallen into during the pandemic, such as increased time spent on phones or tablets, are playing havoc with sleep patterns.""People are going from screens for work, to screens in their spare time, and then screens at bedtime,"" he says. ""This is not helped by side issues like alcohol, or too much caffeine in the afternoon or evening,"" he says.The UK trade body, the Association for Decentralised Energy (ADE), enlisted Mr Kirsten to host a workshop for its employees dealing with sleep problems brought on by the pandemic. Lily Frenchman, head of operations at ADE, says the organisation has also focused on enabling staff to speak up about the challenges they face regarding their mental health. ""If someone was having trouble sleeping I would want to hear, because that's a sign something's not working.""Whether that's work, or personal, that person needs support,"" she says.For those struggling with insomnia, Mr Kirsten advises getting the conditions right for a good night's sleep, such as ensuring the room you sleep in is dark and cool, disengaging from screen time and work-related thinking before bed, and, crucially, making sleep a priority in your life.""Sleep should never be [thought of as] an inconvenience, it's the pillar that gives you the performance edge,"" he says. ""It's about creating special time for this incredible process called sleep.""",2021-08-11,business,BBC
"China: Taobao, Weibo fined for illegal child content","China's internet watchdog has ordered some of the country's biggest online platforms to remove inappropriate child-related content.Kuaishou, Tencent's messaging tool QQ, Alibaba's Taobao and Weibo have been summoned by the Cyberspace Administration of China (CAC).CAC says the platforms must ""rectify"" and ""clean up"" all illegal content and has fined them.The announcement comes as Beijing carries out a crackdown on tech firms.In a statement, the CAC said ""the operation is focused on solving seven types of prominent online problems that endanger the physical and mental health of minors"". They were:The platforms have been given a deadline to take down content that violate the guidelines and have also been fined, though the statement did not give details on how long companies had to comply nor the size of the fines.China's major internet firms have come under increasingly close scrutiny this year as Beijing tightens its grip on the technology industry.Earlier this month, shares in Chinese ride-hailing giant Didi Chuxing plunged after the CAC ordered online stores not to offer Didi's app, saying it illegally collected users' personal data.In March, China's State Administration for Market Regulation (SAMR) said it had fined 12 companies over 10 deals that violated anti-monopoly rules.The companies included Tencent, Baidu, Didi Chuxing, SoftBank and a ByteDance-backed firm, the SAMR said in a statement.According to state broadcaster CCTV, President Xi Jinping has ordered regulators to step up their oversight of internet companies, crack down on monopolies and promote fair competition.",2021-07-21,business,BBC
China's get-tough approach to big business will continue for years,"Top leaders from the ruling Communist Party on Wednesday laid out a blueprint for how they plan to continue tightening the regulatory screws on companies over the next five years.The country's latest five-year plan includes promises to strengthen rules that would clamp down on monopolistic behavior and regulate technological innovation. Authorities also called on ""law enforcement"" to take action in areas of ""vital interests of people,"" including financial services, education and tutoring.The policy map — jointly released by the Party's central committee and the State Council — was vague on the specific actions that authorities want regulators to take.But it suggests Beijing's unprecedented crackdown on private enterprise, which began late last year, could last for some time. China's five-year plans are the cornerstone of economic and social policy in the country, and the latest plan runs through 2025. ""The people's growing need for a better life has put forward new and higher requirements for the construction of a government under the rule of law,"" officials wrote in the policy paper, stressing the need to regulate parts of the economy necessary for ""social fairness"" or ""public good.""The directive comes during a time of massive upheaval for Chinese industries ranging from tech and financial services to private tutoring. An onslaught of regulations on private business has rattled global investors and triggered fears about the future of innovation in China, as well as the ability for companies to tap capital markets. The government has cited a need to safeguard national security and protect the interests of its people. Regulators have widely blamed the private sector for creating socioeconomic problems that could potentially destabilize society and affect the Party's grip on power.  Beijing's grievances with each sector vary.Ride-hailing company Didi — which recently went public in New York — has been accused of mishandling sensitive user data. Other US-listed Chinese tech firms have been criticized for endangering national cybersecurity. High-flying Alibaba affiliate Ant Group, which was supposed to go public in the world's largest IPO last year, has been chastised for increasing financial risk. And a slew of private tutoring firms were warned against worsening inequality in access to education during a crackdown last month. The clampdown has wiped out more than $1 trillion in market value for many powerful Chinese companies and even caused some big proponents of Chinese investment to think again. SoftBank (SFTBF) CEO Masayoshi Son — whose company holds stakes in Alibaba (BABA), Didi and TikTok owner ByteDance — said Tuesday that he would take a cautious approach to investing in China until the impact of new regulations are clear.""Is it six months, 12 months? I don't know yet,"" Son said. ""[But] in one year or two years, under the new rules, and under new orders, I think things will be much clearer ... Once things get clearer, then we are open to resuming active investment.""Chinese stocks were modestly lower Thursday. Hong Kong's Hang Seng Index (HSI) was down 0.7%, while the Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP) dropped 0.2%.The muted reaction hints that investors may be more accepting of the ""new normal"" for Chinese business, ""with China's regulatory crackdown now seemingly set for years ahead,"" wrote Jeffrey Halley, senior market analyst for Asia Pacific at Oanda, in a research note. — Michelle Toh contributed to this report.",2021-08-12,business,CNN
Twitter blocks Indian opposition accounts for revealing identity of child allegedly raped and murdered,"Twitter's (TWTR) decision followed a call from India's child protection agency to block access to tweets it said identified a 9-year old girl who was killed in Delhi earlier this month. Police are investigating allegations of rape made by the victims' family and neighbors. The girl was a member of the Dalit community, the most oppressed group in India's Hindu system of caste hierarchy. Four men have been arrested, though they have not yet been charged. The incident prompted a judicial inquiry and sparked days of protests from outraged villagers and activists who think Prime Minister Narendra Modi's government has not done enough to address longstanding sexual assault problems.Some of Modi's most vocal critics include members of the Congress party, the country's main opposition. Senior Congress leader and MP Rahul Gandhi tweeted August 4 a photo of him with the girl's parents, adding the caption: ""The parents' tears say one thing — their daughter, the daughter of the country, deserves justice.""India's National Commission for Protection of Child Rights, though, asked Twitter last week to take action against Gandhi's Twitter handle for posting that image. The agency said that by tweeting a photo of the girl's parents, Gandhi had revealed the identity of a sexual assault victim in violation of Indian law.Gandhi's Twitter account — which has some 19.5 million followers — was apparently locked over the weekend, according to a tweet from the Congress party's official Twitter account.When asked about Congress party's blocked accounts on Thursday, a Twitter spokesperson told CNN Business that the ""specific content"" flagged by India's child rights body was reviewed and deemed in violation of the company's policies as it may have revealed the identity of the alleged sexual assault victim's parents.""We have taken proactive action on several hundred Tweets that posted an image that violated our Rules, and may continue to do so in line with our range of enforcement options,"" the spokesperson said. ""Certain types of private information carry higher risks than others, and our aim is always to protect individuals' privacy and safety.""The Congress party fired back against Twitter's decision in a Facebook post Thursday.""When our leaders were put in jails, we were not scared. So, why should we be afraid of our Twitter accounts being closed?"" the party wrote. ""We are the Congress [party], this is the message of the people, we will fight and will continue to do so.""Congress spokesperson Rohan Gupta told CNN Business on Thursday that 5,000 of its accounts had been blocked by Twitter after posting Gandhi's picture. He accused the company of ""acting under the pressure of government.""""I understand @Twitter's position that it has no choice but block accounts that violate Indian law &Twitter policy. While the law is what it is, policy can be reviewed,"" tweeted senior party leader Shashi Tharoor on Thursday. ""Automatically locking accounts is an extreme step that stifles the freedom of expression of Indian citizens.""According to Twitter's rules, if a tweet violates its policies and has yet to be deleted by the account holder, the company locks the account and hides the Tweet behind a notice acknowledging the policy violation. The account holder can unlock the account by removing the post or successfully appealing the decision.Twitter has for months been in a tough spot in India. The government introduced new rules in February that, among other things, require social media companies to create new roles in the country to ensure that they follow local laws and address complaints from Indian users. Companies are also required to trace the ""first originator"" of messages if asked by authorities.In May, Twitter expressed concerns about ""core elements of the new IT Rules"" and the ""potential threat to freedom of speech"" in the country. But it later pledged to meet the new requirements.",2021-08-12,tech,CNN
Cryptocurrency heist hacker returns $260m in funds,"The hacker behind one of the largest cryptocurrency heists to date has returned almost half of the $600m (Â£433m) stolen assets.On Tuesday, the firm affected, Poly Network wrote a letter on Twitter, asking the individual to get in touch ""to work out a solution"". The hacker then posted messages pledging to return funds, claiming to be ""not very interested in money"".On Wednesday, Poly Network said it had received $260m back.The company, a blockchain platform which lets users swap different types of digital tokens, posted on Twitter that it had been sent back three cryptocurrencies, including $3.3m worth of Ethereum, $256m worth of Binance Coin and $1m worth of Polygon.A total of $269m in Ether tokens and $84m in Polygon tokens has yet to be recovered.  A blockchain is a ledger, or log, of every single transaction made of a cryptocurrency, such as Bitcoin. The ledger is distributed to all the users in the network to verify all new transactions when they occur, instead of being held by any one single authority.The hacker published a three-page-long Q&A session on one of the blockchains essentially in the form of a self-interview, according to Tom Robinson, co-founder of Elliptic, a London-based blockchain analytics and compliance firm.The hacker claimed to have always planned to return the tokens and said the heist was carried out to highlight vulnerabilities in Poly Network software.""I know it hurts when people are attacked, but shouldn't they learn something from those hacks?"" the hacker wrote in the notes embedded on the Ethereum blockchain.The hacker claimed to have spent all night looking for a vulnerability to exploit. They said they were worried that Poly Network would patch the security flaw quietly without telling anyone, so they decided to take millions of dollars in cryptocurrency tokens to make a point. But they stressed that they did not want to cause a ""real panic [in] the crypto-world"", so they only took ""important coins"", leaving behind Dogecoin, the cryptocurrency that started off as a joke. ""Either they just intended to commit theft and steal the assets, or they were acting like a white hat hacker to expose a bug, to help Poly Network make themselves more strong and secure,"" Mr Robinson, who routinely advises governments and law enforcement agencies about crypto-related crimes, told the BBC.He added that the nature of blockchain technology makes it hard for cyber-criminals to profit from stealing digital currencies, because everyone can see the money being moved across the network into the hackers' wallets.""I wonder whether this hacker stole the funds, realised how much publicity and attention they were getting, realised wherever they moved the funds they would be watched, and decided to give it back,"" said Mr Robinson.""The blockchain itself has operated here flawlessly, but the problem is on blockchains like Ethereum, you can write your own smart contracts. Various services have started offering this, including Poly Network. ""So whenever a human being writes code, there's a chance they will make a mistake.""Poly Network's platform works by facilitating movement between several blockchains when people trade one cryptocurrency for another, such as trading Binance Coin for Ether.""The Poly Network is the thing that facilitates the movement between these chains - ultimately, it's software, it's code, and code always has imperfections and defects in it,"" James Chappell, co-founder of London-based cyber-security firm Digital Shadows, told the BBC.""And that's true of banks, or any financial system. Unfortunately, what seems to have happened here is a party has spotted a weakness in the implementation and exploited it to fool the network into transferring these tokens incorrectly.""Similar attacks have happened to several other services in the last 12 months. These include: After a rollercoaster 24 hours for the crypto community, it seems the hacker intends to return all or most of the stolen money.  As the criminal posted online: ""The pain suffered is temporary, but memorable.""The claim that it was all an elaborate way to force Poly Network to fix security failings is being treated with scepticism.Why the taunting and boasting online if the motive was honourable? There's some suggestion that the net may have been closing in, as one cyber-security company says it was close to working out the identity of a suspect. It might have been the case that the hacker bit off way more than they could chew and got scared, so returned the money.Regardless, the authorities will still no doubt be working hard to find them.But what this story mostly points to is just how powerful hackers can be and how powerless the unregulated, decentralised cryptocurrency world is when someone swipes a large fortune from under its nose.",2021-08-12,business,BBC
Boohoo boss: 'We're not a throwaway fashion brand',"The boss of fast fashion online retailer Boohoo has insisted its clothing brands are ""not throwaway"". In an exclusive interview with BBC Radio 5 Live's Wake Up to Money podcast, John Lyttle said Boohoo had a ""clear strategy"" for being more sustainable.""We're here because people want to wear clothes, they have to be supplied,"" he told the BBC.""We're trying make the journey as sustainable as possible,"" he added.However, sustainability targets the company has set itself could take some time to meet, he said, adding there were ""lots of pieces still to answer.""""20% of all our ranges will be sustainable this autumn... 40% next spring/summer,"" said Mr Lyttle.""They're not going to be fixed in six and 12 months... It's the same 2030 timeframe as combustible engines.""Boohoo owns 13 brands: Boohoo, BoohooMan, Coast, Karen Millen, Dorothy Perkins, Warehouse, Oasis, Wallis, Burton, Debenhams, PrettyLittleThing, NastyGal and MissPap.Mr Lyttle, a former chief operating officer at Primark, defended Boohoo's ultra-low advertised prices for its clothing: ""We're not down in the cheap end. Even on our lower price brand our selling price is higher.""He added: ""Our data doesn't suggest people are buying every day or buying once and wearing something new.""Former Labour MP and Environmental Audit Committee chairwoman Mary Creagh said Boohoo's environmental policy claims and 20% sustainability target amounted to ""greenwashing"".""We've consistently seen them play cat and mouse with lawmakers and public opinion on the issue of sustainable working practices and sustainable consumption,"" she said.""Boohoo in particular has to reduce the volume of clothes it makes and accurately price their garments to reflect the environmental cost of fashion production.""Meanwhile Noelle Hatley, senior lecturer in fashion business at Manchester's Fashion Institute, said brands were able to use the term ""sustainable"" because there is ""no industry-wide agreement on its meaning"".""40% is a reasonable target, but it all hinges on what they mean by sustainable and how much information they will actually share with the customers,"" she stressed.Boohoo was founded in 2006 in Manchester by Mahmud Kamani and Carol Kane. By 2020, the company had hit sales of Â£1.2bn and boasted a 5,000-strong workforce. The aim of the venture was to use the internet to ""cut out the middle man"" in retail. As well as facing questions about the environmental impact of Boohoo's fast-fashion business model, there have been accusations of widespread abuse of employment law at some of its suppliers in Leicester.Investigations last year suggested workers were being paid below the minimum wage amid unsafe working conditions.Subsequently, an independent review into the retailer concluded that there were ""many failings"" in the way Boohoo managed its supply chain. ""We were very upset about it,"" Mr Lyttle said. ""It's not the culture of our business, it's not how we look after our staff.""We want to make sure everything is proper and done in the right way.""The crisis led to calls for his resignation, but he says this would not have been the right approach to take.""If I'd have resigned, it would have set it back - in terms of time - to do what we needed to do,"" he stressed.He added that Boohoo had ""not seen evidence"" of workers being paid under the minimum wage, but the company could ""level up our audit and investigation to ensure those workers are getting paid"".Boohoo is now creating 3,000 new jobs across the country, including at a warehouse in Burnley, as well as more roles at its Manchester headquarters. Mr Lyttle said consumer habits had changed during the Covid-19 pandemic, prompting the company to hire more staff.""We need efficiency and speed,"" he added. ""Immediacy is the biggest trend in the last 18 months and that's getting greater and greater. Consumers drive the trends.""Interview by Sean Farrington, additional reporting by Elisabeth Mahy.",2021-08-12,business,BBC
How we can all get more high-quality sleep,"Nicole Baker is one of the many people who have struggled with insomnia since the start of the coronavirus pandemic.""I went from someone who can drop asleep at 9pm every day, to being awake at 3am every night,"" she says. ""It was draining and really worrying, as during the day I would really struggle to stay focused.""Ms Baker, who works as a facilities coordinator, put her sleep issues down to increased anxiety.""I felt that the constant worry of Covid-19 death rates, job security, my family, not being able to have the freedom of travelling, and the uncertainty of the future, really put great amounts of stress and anxiety on my mind,"" she says.""My mind was in absolute overload, constantly running and worrying about life 24/7, making it impossible for me to sleep at night.""In the UK, the number of people experiencing insomnia rose from one in six before the pandemic, to one in four during it, according to a study last year by the University of Southampton.Meanwhile, the word ""insomnia"" was Googled in the US in 2020 more than ever before.As well as increased general stress and anxiety levels, a rise in sleep problems has been put down to other factors caused by the pandemic - such as the enforced changes to daily routines and social lives. With tired staff less productive, the pandemic has led to a number of companies focusing on helping their employees get a better quantity, and quality, of sleep. Ms Baker's employer, a London-based marketing firm called MVF, is one such business.When the pandemic hit, MVF expanded its wellbeing support for employees, to offer mental health coaching sessions and workshops focused on sleep, along with free subscriptions to the meditation app, Headspace. Ms Baker says the extra support has helped her insomnia. ""[The resources] helped me learn to recognise and manage how the pandemic has affected me and the people around me, and put my mind at ease a little, which is a big relief,"" she says.Katie Fischer, a sleep coach and founder of Circadian Sleep Coaching, works with businesses to provide support to employees. Along with the increase in anxiety, being stuck inside during lockdown has been a contributor to the rise in sleep disruption, she says.""Many people have been sleeping later [in  the day] because they are getting outside less,"" she says. ""They are less active and finding it really hard to decompress at the end of the day. ""It's hard not having that commute, that demarcation that frames the day, gets you up and out into the daylight.""Global advertising company GroupM is one of the businesses that Ms Fischer works with, providing one-to-one sleep-coaching sessions for its employees.GroupM had already been running a sleep-coaching service for parents of young children on its staff, but during the pandemic it expanded the service to all employees.In these sessions, Ms Fischer assesses a person's health background, personal circumstances, and the reasons behind their challenges with sleep, to help come up with ways to resolve them.Jennifer Harley, people business partner at GroupM, says that sleep support will continue to be a critical aspect of the company's health and wellbeing programme. ""When we don't have enough sleep, we don't bring our best selves to work, so we need to invest in wellbeing,"" she says. ""Businesses should care about the impact of having people who are happy, healthy and well slept.""Even before the pandemic, sleep-deprived workers cost the UK economy up to Â£40bn a year, due to tired employees being less productive, or absent from work altogether, according to a 2016 study from research firm Rand Europe.With many companies set to adopt a hybrid-working model as the world slowly returns to normal after the pandemic - allowing their staff to continue to work from home part of the time -  Ms Fischer advises that businesses check in regularly with employees.She says firms should set parameters around work and home life, and encourage people who are not working in the office to have a regular routine.""Some companies try to preserve that opportunity at the end of the day for employees to wind down and relax, so they can support that ability to fall asleep and start afresh the next day,"" says Ms Fischer.She also advises that people stick to a regular wake-up time in the morning, regardless of whether they are working from home that day, or going into the office, to promote better quality sleep.New Economy is a new series exploring how businesses, trade, economies and working life are changing fast.Max Kirsten, a hypnotherapist and sleep coach, adds that many of the bad habits people have fallen into during the pandemic, such as increased time spent on phones or tablets, are playing havoc with sleep patterns.""People are going from screens for work, to screens in their spare time, and then screens at bedtime,"" he says. ""This is not helped by side issues like alcohol, or too much caffeine in the afternoon or evening,"" he says.The UK trade body, the Association for Decentralised Energy (ADE), enlisted Mr Kirsten to host a workshop for its employees dealing with sleep problems brought on by the pandemic. Lily Frenchman, head of operations at ADE, says the organisation has also focused on enabling staff to speak up about the challenges they face regarding their mental health. ""If someone was having trouble sleeping I would want to hear, because that's a sign something's not working.""Whether that's work, or personal, that person needs support,"" she says.For those struggling with insomnia, Mr Kirsten advises getting the conditions right for a good night's sleep, such as ensuring the room you sleep in is dark and cool, disengaging from screen time and work-related thinking before bed, and, crucially, making sleep a priority in your life.""Sleep should never be [thought of as] an inconvenience, it's the pillar that gives you the performance edge,"" he says. ""It's about creating special time for this incredible process called sleep.""",2021-08-11,business,BBC
UK economy rebounds as Covid restrictions ease,"The UK economy grew by 4.8% between April and June, according to official figures, as most businesses emerged from lockdown.Data from the Office for National Statistics showed that the expansion in gross domestic product (GDP) was fuelled by retail, restaurants and hotels.Education also boosted the economy as schools reopened in the second quarter.However, the figure was slightly below the 5% the Bank of England expected. The UK economy is now 4.4% smaller than it was before the pandemic. Growth in the second quarter contrasts with the first three months of the year, when the economy shrank by 1.6% while Covid restrictions were still in place. Chancellor Rishi Sunak told the BBC: ""Today's figures show that the economy is recovering very strongly, exceeding many people's expectations.""But I'm not complacent. The economy and our public finances have experienced a significant shock. It is going to take us time to fully recover from that.""Capital Economics said it expected the economy to return to pre-Covid levels later this year.""We are comfortable with our view that monthly GDP will return to its February 2020 pre-pandemic size by October and that the economy may yet surprise most forecasters by emerging from the pandemic without much scarring,"" said senior UK economist Ruth Gregory.In April, non-essential retailers reopened, as well as gyms, hairdressers and outdoor dining. In May, pubs, restaurants and cafes were allowed to serve customers indoors, while theatres, galleries and cinemas were allowed to open their doors.The main driver of growth was consumer spending, which rose by 7.3% over the quarter, ahead of expectations.The UK is not just a nation of shopkeepers, but social animals. And it's that large proportion of ""social spending"" - on hotels, restaurants and leisure - that made our economy so vulnerable to lockdowns. The UK was the fastest shrinking of the G7 nations in 2020 and conversely, maybe one of the fastest of the big players to recover in 2021 as restrictions lift. The consumer has led the way, driving output to within 5% of pre-pandemic levels, despite the Delta variant of Covid. It's growth that some feared just months ago would take far longer to materialise. But what happens next is still uncertain. The safety net that has protected livelihoods - the furlough scheme - ends in October. Economists think there will be some job losses, albeit far fewer than assumed a year ago. The biggest risk, however, will come from further variants and a resurgence in infections and restrictions. Policymakers are assuming we're done with the latter. A year ago, they were predicting there'd be no more national lockdowns: let's hope they're right this time. If so, the impressive vaccination rate in the UK should stand the economy in good stead - others are not that fortunate. Be it health or wealth, it's access to vaccinations that may increasingly make the difference between the haves and have-nots as we try to escape the grip of this pandemic. At the end of the quarter in June, the monthly growth is estimated at 1%, slightly more than most economists expected. Pantheon Macroeconomics said that nearly half of the economic expansion in June came from activity in the health sector, ""reportedly due primarily to a surge in people visiting their GP"".Hargreaves Lansdowne said: ""Fears that the arrival of the Delta variant and the 'pingdemic' that followed might impact growth have so far not really materialised."" However, the ONS revised down its figure for May from 0.8% to 0.6% during a month of heavy rainfall. The UK economy has been supported by the government's wage support scheme. But from July, employers have had to make contributions to staff wages and the scheme is set to close by the end of September.The economy is rebounding, but the pandemic is still having an impact on the restaurant trade, according to Asma Khan, founder and owner of Darjeeling Express, a family-owned Indian restaurant in London's Covent Garden.""It's been very tough,"" she told the BBC. ""The insecurity has been very hard to deal with, the way the lockdown happened in March of last year.""Mrs Khan said that she was ""grateful"" for the furlough scheme which allowed her to keep her entire staff on.Even so, ""I was still liable for all the rents and all the financial costs mounted up,"" she added.There is, however, ""a lot of optimism"", Mrs Khan said. People are booking months in advance to dine at her restaurant, which recently welcomed US comic actors Paul Rudd and Dan Levy.   ""We had, I think, 1,300 bookings in five hours when we started opening all up all the other dates,"" she said.Mrs Khan said the changing nature of the UK's travel restrictions remained a concern. She said businesses like hers in central London were ""completely dependent on tourists"".""People are worried because this whole insecurity of the red list, the amber list. This fluctuation is basically deterring a lot of people, except the very brave, to want to come in because they don't know whether the status of their country is going to change by the time they're ready to go back.""Following the release of second-quarter GDP figures, Mr Sunak said the UK had ""the fastest quarterly growth rate among the G7 economies"". But Pantheon Macroeconomics said: ""The UK economy almost certainly was the hardest hit by Covid-19 in the G7.""While UK GDP is still 4.4% smaller than its pre-pandemic level, the US has seen its economy recover, making it 0.8% larger than before Covid. Pantheon also said France's economy was 3.3% below pre-pandemic levels, Germany was 3.6% below and Italy's GDP was 3.8% lower.Japan and Canada have yet to report up-to-date figures, but Pantheon said: ""Both economies had fared much better than the UK in previous quarters.""  ",2021-08-12,business,BBC
Tui boss: UK falling behind European travel recovery,"The UK holiday recovery is lagging behind the rest of Europe, in part due to uncertainty over shifting travel restrictions, Europe's biggest travel firm has said.Tui bookings have jumped by 1.5 million since May, primarily driven by bookings from continental Europe.But the holiday firm said frequent UK rule changes had deterred people.The UK government has consistently said that travel restrictions are needed to combat the Covid pandemic.Tui chief executive Friedrich Joussen said British holidaymakers had faced more uncertainty than many other Europeans in recent months and had been put off by changing policies from the UK government. He pointed out the UK decision to add Portugal to the list of green travel destinations in mid-May before removing it in early June.""When you change the programme so often, then people cancel,"" he added.The cost of PCR tests for Covid would also be putting off customers, he said.Since mid-January, on all but a few days, UK travellers cancelled more travel for summer 2021 than they booked, according to Tui data.This is in direct contrast to customers from Germany, Belgium and the Netherlands, where bookings were ahead of cancellations for most of that period.Despite a jump in summer interest, total Tui bookings were still down 68% compared with summer 2019.Tui said that about 4.2 million customers had booked for summer 2021, with an increase of 1.5 million bookings since May.The travel firm said pent-up demand from European holidaymakers was behind the rise.But while UK bookings are picking up, they are still lagging behind other countries.UK customers are normally a major part of Tui's business, but only about 17% of those 4.2 million summer customers were from the UK.In the third quarter, only 50,000 customers departed from Tui's northern region, composed of the UK and Ireland, the Nordic countries, Canada and Russia.This reflected ""limited green list destinations made available by the UK government"" and the ""stop-start nature of permitted destinations under UK travel restrictions"", Tui added.The next UK travel list review is due on or about 25 August.Travel expert Simon Calder said: ""The simple reason bookings are so sluggish in the UK is the unpredictability of government advice.""He added: ""I am hearing from a lot of prospective travellers that they are not confident enough to book - and from many of those with bookings that they wish they hadn't committed.""The UK government has a ""traffic light"" system in place for international travels, with green, amber and red list countries.This week, it updated the list, with France moving from ""amber-plus"" status to normal amber country rules.Most countries are on the amber list, with adults that have been fully vaccinated in the UK, US and most European countries not having to self-isolate upon arrival in the UK.The UK government has previously said that while it wants people to be able to travel, the travel lists are updated ""to protect us against new variants"" of Covid.The Department for Transport was approached for comment.Tui and many other firms in the travel sector have been hit very hard by the effects of coronavirus.The travel firm, which has its headquarters in Hanover, has had a number of bailouts from the German government and loans worth billions of euros.Because of Brexit, its credit line from a British bank could not be extended beyond summer 2022. ",2021-08-12,business,BBC
IHOP is adding booze to the menu at some locations ,"That's because for the first time, IHOP is offering its franchisees, which run the vast majority of IHOP restaurants, the chance to add an alcohol menu devised by the company.A handful of IHOP franchises have already been selling alcohol. But previously it was on them to select the menu and launch the new offerings. On the company's new menu: Bud Light, Blue Moon and Corona beers, as well as Barefoot Bubbly Brut, Barefoot Bubbly Chardonnay and Barefoot Cabernet Sauvignon. Some locations may have local offerings, as well. Hard liquor is not on the menu to avoid making IHOP, a family restaurant, feel like a bar. Two IHOP locations in New Mexico are offering drinking-aged guests boozy options to complement their meals starting this week, the company announced Thursday. Another one in San Diego will start selling alcohol in September. About nine more restaurants will adopt the boozy menu in markets including New York, Rhode Island, Maryland and Ohio, likely by the end of the year, IHOP president Jay Johns told CNN Business. IHOP hopes its initial slate of restaurants is just the beginning. If things go well, ""we'll hit the gas pedal and we'll go much faster"" after that, Johns said. Convincing franchiseesJohns said he's not sure all locations will end up selling alcohol. But ""we want it to be as broad as possible,"" he said. Eventually, he thinks about 1,000 or so restaurants could offer booze. There are about 1,750 IHOP restaurants in total. But in order for the plan to work, IHOP has to convince its franchise operators that adding the alcohol menu is worth the investment. Franchisees participating in the program have to get a liquor license, train staffers to card customers and become familiar with new menu items. Following a brutal period of declining sales and during a nationwide labor shortage, that may be a big ask. Sales at IHOP restaurants open at least a year were much higher in the second quarter compared to the same period last year, but are still below 2019 second-quarter sales.By adding an alcohol menu, IHOP hopes to attract customers who want a drink with their meal, particularly later in the day. IHOP has long been trying to drum up interest in it's non-breakfast menu items. Back in 2018, it briefly changed its branding to ""IHOb,"" a marketing stunt designed to call attention to its burgers. Alcohol ""is clearly something that's right in our strategy of ... coming up with more ways that people can enjoy us for dinner"" or lunch, said Johns. Cracker Barrel added alcohol to hundreds of its locations last year. The chain also said it was courting people who had been skipping Cracker Barrel in order to visit a place that served alcohol. Other chains, like Taco Bell, have also added alcohol to the menu in recent years. Right now, the rollout is in ""test mode,"" Johns said. The first three restaurants volunteered to be early adopters. ""They feel comfortable that their staffing is fine. And [that] they can execute this,"" he said. There are reasons for franchisees, who operate virtually all IHOP locations, to get excited about the program. Alcohol has higher margins than food items, so selling it could ultimately make franchise operators more profitable, he said. And if people spend more per meal because they're ordering drinks, server tips could go up as well, he added. Johns said that ""we think this will be pretty simple to execute,"" because of the limited menu.Plus, IHOP's culinary team came up with meal pairings for the drinks. You might want to drink a mimosa with your french toast, pair a Chardonnay with a Southwest chicken burrito or order a Corona Extra to complement your poblano omelette, for example. The pairings can help servers upsell the product. ",2021-08-12,business,CNN
Inflation is spreading to more parts of the US economy,"A version of this story first appeared in CNN Business' Before the Bell newsletter. Not a subscriber? You can sign up right here.What's happening: Consumer price inflation remained elevated in July, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics. Prices rose 5.4% from a year earlier, flat compared with June when the index hit a 13-year high.On a monthly basis, however, prices rose 0.5% in July, a major slowdown from 0.9% growth in June and the weakest pace since February.But drill down into the data. While some of the major drivers of previous spikes, such as used car prices, eased last month, the cost of other goods, including medical care, housing and food in grocery stores and at restaurants, climbed.""The annual rate of inflation has seemingly peaked, but the details show a broadening out of price pressures,"" chief international economist at ING, James Knightley wrote in a note to clients. ""This indicates inflation is likely to be more persistent and pervasive than predicted by the Federal Reserve.""For now, investors remain sanguine. The S&P 500 (SPX) and Dow (DJX) notched fresh all-time highs on Wednesday and yields on 10-year US Treasuries fell as traders bet the inflation data will take pressure off the Fed to hike interest rates and rein in asset purchases sooner than expected.Economics 101: The latest inflation reading doesn't change the fact that America's ""stimulus fuelled economy is booming,"" according to Knightley. ""Demand is outpacing the supply capacity of the economy given the scarring that the pandemic has caused as evidenced in production bottlenecks and labour shortages,"" he said.Competition for workers is placing upward pressure on wages, while record low levels of raw materials supply, order backlogs and extended delivery times are adding further stress to supply chains.""Costs are increasing throughout the economy and the strength of demand means that companies have a sense of more pricing power [than] they have experienced in years,"" Knightley added.See here: Data from the National Federation of Independent Businesses shows that the proportion of companies raising prices and expecting to raise them further in coming months is at a 40-year high. ""As such, imminent major declines in inflation look unlikely,"" Knightley concluded.Even the White House is worried about rising prices. On Wednesday, US National Security Adviser Jake Sullivan called on OPEC+ to increase oil production in order to curb high gasoline costs.""President Biden has made clear that he wants Americans to have access to affordable and reliable energy, including at the pump,"" Sullivan said in a statement, adding that the US government is ""engaging with relevant OPEC+ members on the importance of competitive markets in setting prices.""Up Next: With a growing number of senior Fed officials making the case for pulling back bond purchases, all eyes will be on the Economic Policy Symposium in Jackson Hole, Wyoming later this month.Airlines are not out the woods yetAir travel has picked up in the United States and Europe following the rollout of vaccines, but risks remain elevated for battered airlines desperately trying to recover from the pandemic.The latest: Southwest Airlines (LUV) warned Wednesday that the Delta variant of Covid-19 will make it difficult to turn a profit in the third quarter. In a regulatory filing, the carrier said customers have been booking fewer flights in August and cancelling trips they had already booked.The development marks a stark turn of events for Southwest, my CNN Business colleague Jordan Valinsky reports. The company predicted just a few weeks ago that it would be profitable in the third and fourth quarters based on strong bookings for leisure travel.But things can change quickly in the pandemic economy. At the beginning of July, domestic air travel, measured by tickets issued by US travel agencies and online booking companies, stood at just 3% below 2019 levels. A few weeks later on July 23, it was more than a fifth below the same point in 2019, according to the CNN Business Economic Recovery Dashboard.Delta blues: In the latest sign of how the Delta variant is weighing on the recovery, the International Energy Agency on Thursday downgraded its outlook for oil demand for the remainder of the year, in part due to the ""worsening progression of the pandemic.""After surging in June to a level almost three times the seasonal norm thanks to increased mobility in North America and Europe, global oil demand ""abruptly reversed course"" in July, the Paris-based body said in a report.Art auction will test appetite for alternativesInvestors hunting for more creative places to park their cash than the stock market will soon have an opportunity to deploy some serious dough.Auction alert: Eleven Pablo Picasso artworks with a combined top estimate of over $100 million are hitting the auction block this October, my CNN colleague Jacqui Palumbo reports.Part of MGM Resorts' sizable art collection, the pieces have been on display in Las Vegas for over two decades at a Michelin-starred French and Spanish eatery called Picasso in the Bellagio.Sotheby's is organizing the sale, which forms part of MGM's attempts to reposition the gambling mecca as a ""broader art destination,"" according to Brooke Lampley, the auction house's chairperson.Investor insight: Wealthy individuals who've saved vast sums of money during the pandemic have been stashing their cash in some unusual investments, such as high-end spirits and trading cards. The Picasso auction will provide yet more insight into investor appetite for alternative assets.Up NextEarnings from TUI (TUIFF), Baidu (BIDU), Palantir Technologies and Utz Brands are out before US markets open. Airbnb, DoorDash, Disney (DIS) and Wish report after the close.Also today:US jobless claims.US producer price index for July.",2021-08-12,investing,CNN
Pret a Manger makes staff pay cuts permanent,"Pret a Manger has told its staff that a temporary pay cut will now be made permanent as trade remains ""significantly below"" pre-Covid levels.The sandwich chain stopped paying workers during their breaks last September in a effort to cut costs.However, it has now told workers that the measure will be kept in place.Pret said: ""This is in no way a reflection of the hard work of our teams and we're incredibly grateful for their dedication and commitment.""The company has also confirmed that a special bonus for good service, which was paused last year and reinstated in April, will continue at a reduced rate.The Guardian has reported that staff are considering strike action following the move. Pret declined to comment on whether staff were planning to walk out.But it said: ""Like others in the hospitality industry, the pandemic had a big impact on our business, so last year we adjusted our business model. The business is still trading significantly below pre-pandemic levels, but we continue to review our benefits.""A spokesman for Pret said there would be a pay review in April next year.Despite the UK economy reopening in recent months, many people continue to work - and eat their lunch - at home.Pret has tried to counter the drop in trade by introducing new lines of business such as its coffee subscription service, allowing customers up to five cups of coffee a day for a Â£20 monthly fee.It is also trialling cafes within the likes of Tesco to adjust its business ""to a new way of living and working"",Since the beginning of pandemic, Pret has closed 39 shops in the UK, as well as 33 EAT outlets, which it also owns. It also shut 22 Pret sites in the US.It has cut 3,771 jobs in the UK, according to its most recent accounts, as well as 1,292 roles in the US at a cost of Â£15.3m.Pret received a capital injection of Â£185m last year from shareholders and has access to a finance facility of Â£150m which runs until December this year, but can be extended for a further six months.",2021-08-12,business,BBC
Key inflation measure hits new record high — yet again,"Producer price inflation, which measures the prices US producers receive for their goods and services, rose 7.8% over the 12 months ended in July. That was more than economists had expected and marked a new record high since the Bureau of Labor Statistics first began calculating the index in November 2010.So the supply-demand mismatch in the pandemic economy continues. Yet on Wednesday, another report showed the roaring surge in consumer prices began to subside in July — albeit holding at a 13-year high over the 12-month period.The two apparently contradictory data points are ""a mix that will keep inflation concerns alive even as economists will continue to expect a slowing in monthly price gains into year-end,"" economists from Action Economics wrote in a research note to clients.Overheating concernsThe pandemic-era inflation spike has sparked concerns that an overheating economy could stop Americans from spending, which would be terrible for the recovery. Investors are also worried that higher-than-anticipated inflation could force the Federal Reserve to alter its policies sooner than hoped, though so far the central bank has stuck to the script that higher prices are only temporary.""Producer price inflation will slow in the next 12 months as supply chain conditions improve and the economy puts to work its large margin of underutilized productive capacity,"" said PNC Senior Economist Bill Adams in emailed comments.In July alone, producer prices rose a seasonally adjusted 1%,  nearly double what analysts had forecast. Most of the jump was because of higher prices for services, and within that higher margins received by wholesalers and retailers, particularly for cars and car parts.Prices for travel services also increased, including airlines and accommodation, hospital outpatient care and machinery wholesaling, among others.But stripping out more volatile components, such as food, energy and trade services, inflation still rose sharply in July. For the 12 months ended in July, prices rose 6.1%, the biggest increase since the BLS first started calculating this data in August 2014. For the month alone, prices rose 0.9%.                     ",2021-08-12,economy,CNN
UK economy rebounds as Covid restrictions ease,"The UK economy grew by 4.8% between April and June, according to official figures, as most businesses emerged from lockdown.Data from the Office for National Statistics showed that the expansion in gross domestic product (GDP) was fuelled by retail, restaurants and hotels.Education also boosted the economy as schools reopened in the second quarter.However, the figure was slightly below the 5% the Bank of England expected. The UK economy is now 4.4% smaller than it was before the pandemic. Growth in the second quarter contrasts with the first three months of the year, when the economy shrank by 1.6% while Covid restrictions were still in place. Chancellor Rishi Sunak told the BBC: ""Today's figures show that the economy is recovering very strongly, exceeding many people's expectations.""But I'm not complacent. The economy and our public finances have experienced a significant shock. It is going to take us time to fully recover from that.""Capital Economics said it expected the economy to return to pre-Covid levels later this year.""We are comfortable with our view that monthly GDP will return to its February 2020 pre-pandemic size by October and that the economy may yet surprise most forecasters by emerging from the pandemic without much scarring,"" said senior UK economist Ruth Gregory.In April, non-essential retailers reopened, as well as gyms, hairdressers and outdoor dining. In May, pubs, restaurants and cafes were allowed to serve customers indoors, while theatres, galleries and cinemas were allowed to open their doors.The main driver of growth was consumer spending, which rose by 7.3% over the quarter, ahead of expectations.The UK is not just a nation of shopkeepers, but social animals. And it's that large proportion of ""social spending"" - on hotels, restaurants and leisure - that made our economy so vulnerable to lockdowns. The UK was the fastest shrinking of the G7 nations in 2020 and conversely, maybe one of the fastest of the big players to recover in 2021 as restrictions lift. The consumer has led the way, driving output to within 5% of pre-pandemic levels, despite the Delta variant of Covid. It's growth that some feared just months ago would take far longer to materialise. But what happens next is still uncertain. The safety net that has protected livelihoods - the furlough scheme - ends in October. Economists think there will be some job losses, albeit far fewer than assumed a year ago. The biggest risk, however, will come from further variants and a resurgence in infections and restrictions. Policymakers are assuming we're done with the latter. A year ago, they were predicting there'd be no more national lockdowns: let's hope they're right this time. If so, the impressive vaccination rate in the UK should stand the economy in good stead - others are not that fortunate. Be it health or wealth, it's access to vaccinations that may increasingly make the difference between the haves and have-nots as we try to escape the grip of this pandemic. At the end of the quarter in June, the monthly growth is estimated at 1%, slightly more than most economists expected. Pantheon Macroeconomics said that nearly half of the economic expansion in June came from activity in the health sector, ""reportedly due primarily to a surge in people visiting their GP"".Hargreaves Lansdowne said: ""Fears that the arrival of the Delta variant and the 'pingdemic' that followed might impact growth have so far not really materialised."" However, the ONS revised down its figure for May from 0.8% to 0.6% during a month of heavy rainfall. The UK economy has been supported by the government's wage support scheme. But from July, employers have had to make contributions to staff wages and the scheme is set to close by the end of September.The economy is rebounding, but the pandemic is still having an impact on the restaurant trade, according to Asma Khan, founder and owner of Darjeeling Express, a family-owned Indian restaurant in London's Covent Garden.""It's been very tough,"" she told the BBC. ""The insecurity has been very hard to deal with, the way the lockdown happened in March of last year.""Mrs Khan said that she was ""grateful"" for the furlough scheme which allowed her to keep her entire staff on.Even so, ""I was still liable for all the rents and all the financial costs mounted up,"" she added.There is, however, ""a lot of optimism"", Mrs Khan said. People are booking months in advance to dine at her restaurant, which recently welcomed comic actors Paul Rudd, of the US, and Canadian Dan Levy.   ""We had, I think, 1,300 bookings in five hours when we started opening all up all the other dates,"" she said.Mrs Khan said the changing nature of the UK's travel restrictions remained a concern. She said businesses like hers in central London were ""completely dependent on tourists"".""People are worried because this whole insecurity of the red list, the amber list. This fluctuation is basically deterring a lot of people, except the very brave, to want to come in because they don't know whether the status of their country is going to change by the time they're ready to go back.""Following the release of second-quarter GDP figures, Mr Sunak said the UK had ""the fastest quarterly growth rate among the G7 economies"". But Pantheon Macroeconomics said: ""The UK economy almost certainly was the hardest hit by Covid-19 in the G7.""While UK GDP is still 4.4% smaller than its pre-pandemic level, the US has seen its economy recover, making it 0.8% larger than before Covid. Pantheon also said France's economy was 3.3% below pre-pandemic levels, Germany was 3.6% below and Italy's GDP was 3.8% lower.Japan and Canada have yet to report up-to-date figures, but Pantheon said: ""Both economies had fared much better than the UK in previous quarters.""  ",2021-08-12,business,BBC
Tui boss: UK falling behind European travel recovery,"The UK holiday recovery is lagging behind the rest of Europe, in part due to uncertainty over shifting Covid travel restrictions, Europe's biggest travel firm has said.Tui bookings have jumped by 1.5 million since May, primarily driven by bookings from continental Europe.But the holiday firm said frequent UK rule changes had deterred people.The UK government said that its ""top priority is to protect public health"".Tui chief executive Friedrich Joussen said British holidaymakers had faced more uncertainty than many other Europeans in recent months and had been put off by changing policies from the UK government. He pointed out the UK decision to add Portugal to the list of green travel destinations in mid-May before removing it in early June.""When you change the programme so often, then people cancel,"" he added.The cost of PCR tests for Covid would also be putting off customers, he said.Since mid-January, on all but a few days, UK travellers cancelled more travel for summer 2021 than they booked, according to Tui data.This is in direct contrast to customers from Germany, Belgium and the Netherlands, where bookings were ahead of cancellations for most of that period.Despite a jump in summer interest, total Tui bookings were still down 68% compared with summer 2019.Tui said that about 4.2 million customers had booked for summer 2021, with an increase of 1.5 million bookings since May.The travel firm said pent-up demand from European holidaymakers was behind the rise.But while UK bookings are picking up, they are still lagging behind other countries.UK customers are normally a major part of Tui's business, but only about 17% of those 4.2 million summer customers were from the UK.In the third quarter, only 50,000 customers departed from Tui's northern region, composed of the UK and Ireland, the Nordic countries, Canada and Russia.This reflected ""limited green list destinations made available by the UK government"" and the ""stop-start nature of permitted destinations under UK travel restrictions"", Tui added.The next UK travel list review is due on or about 25 August.Travel expert Simon Calder said: ""The simple reason bookings are so sluggish in the UK is the unpredictability of government advice.""He added: ""I am hearing from a lot of prospective travellers that they are not confident enough to book - and from many of those with bookings that they wish they hadn't committed.""The UK government has a ""traffic light"" system in place for international travels, with green, amber and red list countries.This week, it updated the list, with France moving from ""amber-plus"" status to normal amber country rules.Most countries are on the amber list, with adults that have been fully vaccinated in the UK, US and most European countries not having to self-isolate upon arrival in the UK.The UK government has previously said that while it wants people to be able to travel, the travel lists are updated ""to protect us against new variants"" of Covid.A Department for Transport spokesperson said: ""Our top priority is to protect public health - decisions on our traffic light system are kept under regular review and are informed by the latest risk assessment from the Joint Biosecurity Centre and wider public health factors.""We recognise the challenging times facing the travel sector, which is why we have committed around Â£7bn of support by September 2021 and continue to work with industry to help them navigate this difficult period.""Travel continues to be different this year and we encourage people to always check [Foreign Office] travel advice before travelling as any trip carries an increased risk.""Tui and many other firms in the travel sector have been hit very hard by the effects of coronavirus.The travel firm, which has its headquarters in Hanover, has had a number of bailouts from the German government and loans worth billions of euros.Because of Brexit, its credit line from a British bank could not be extended beyond summer 2022. ",2021-08-12,business,BBC
Pret a Manger makes staff pay cuts permanent,"Pret a Manger has told its staff that a temporary pay cut will now be made permanent as trade remains ""significantly below"" pre-Covid levels.The sandwich chain stopped paying workers during their breaks last September in a effort to cut costs.However, it has now told workers that the measure will be kept in place.Pret said: ""This is in no way a reflection of the hard work of our teams and we're incredibly grateful for their dedication and commitment.""The company also confirmed earlier on Thursdaythat a special bonus for good service, which was paused last year and reinstated in April, will continue at a reduced rate.However, it subsequently reversed that decision and from September the bonus will return to its original level.In an email to staff, Pret's chief executive Pano Christou said: ""The business is still in recovery but it's important that we continue to invest in and support our teams however we can.""Commenting on the changes to pay, Mr Christou said: ""The most important thing for me throughout the last year has been to protect as many Pret jobs as we can. ""However, we also promised to review these changes when our sales improved. Unfortunately it's taking longer than we had hoped to get sales back to what they were before the pandemic, which is why we've had to make some difficult decisions about how we reward our hard-working teams.""The Guardian has reported that staff are considering strike action following the changes. Pret declined to comment on whether staff were planning to walk out.But it said: ""Like others in the hospitality industry, the pandemic had a big impact on our business, so last year we adjusted our business model. The business is still trading significantly below pre-pandemic levels, but we continue to review our benefits.""A spokesman for Pret said there would be a pay review in April next year.Despite the UK economy reopening in recent months, many people continue to work - and eat their lunch - at home.Pret has tried to counter the drop in trade by introducing new lines of business such as its coffee subscription service, allowing customers up to five cups of coffee a day for a Â£20 monthly fee.It is also trialling cafes within the likes of Tesco to adjust its business ""to a new way of living and working"",Since the beginning of pandemic, Pret has closed 39 shops in the UK, as well as 33 EAT outlets, which it also owns. It also shut 22 Pret sites in the US.It has cut 3,771 jobs in the UK, according to its most recent accounts, as well as 1,292 roles in the US at a cost of Â£15.3m.Pret received a capital injection of Â£185m last year from shareholders and has access to a finance facility of Â£150m which runs until December this year, but can be extended for a further six months.",2021-08-12,business,BBC
USPS wants to charge you peak shipping fees this holiday season,"The postal service is requesting a temporary price increase on a variety of mail services for the peak holiday season to offset rising delivery costs. The price increases, which range from 25 cents to $5 per package, would go into effect on October 3, 2021 and last through December 26, 2021 for individuals and businesses on mailings including Priority Mail, Priority Mail Express and First-Class Package Service, according to a USPS statement. The Postal Regulatory Commission still has to approve the higher rates. In 2020, USPS implemented a similar temporary rate adjustment during peak holiday season in anticipation of heightened demand and extra shipping costs. However, the postal service still struggled to keep up with holiday demand last year thanks to a historic amount of packages and rising employee Covid-19 cases. In December 2020, packages were ""up to the ceiling"" in Philadelphia, local American Postal Workers Union president Nick Casselli told CNN.""I've been in postal for 35 years, I've never seen what I'm seeing,"" he said.Delays in processing lasted through the holiday season, and some customers didn't receive their mail until January and February. In Tulsa, Oklahoma, James Seaman told CNN affiliate KJRH at the end of January that he was still receiving holiday cards that were originally mailed out in December.""You can't rely on getting things through the mail right now in a timely manner,"" Seaman told KJRH.",2021-08-12,business,CNN
Facebook pushes its office reopening to 2022,"""Data, not dates, is what drives our approach for returning to the office,"" Facebook (FB) spokesperson Chloe Meyere said in a statement. ""Given the recent health data showing rising Covid cases based on the Delta variant, our teams in the US will not be required to go back to the office until January 2022.""The new reopening date will apply to ""some countries outside of the US, as well,"" Meyere added. Many of the tech industry's biggest companies, which were among the first to shut down their offices at the start of the pandemic last year, had set September as the target to reopen. Now these companies are delaying those plans as concerns about the Delta variant increase and in some cases they're requiring vaccinations for employees who are returning.Facebook's decision comes days after Amazon (AMZN) announced it would not bring its corporate workers back to the office until Jan 3, 2022. Ride-hailing firm Lyft (LYFT) has delayed its reopening even further, until Feb 2. Others including Google (GOOGL), Apple (AAPL), Uber (UBER) and Microsoft (MSFT), have adopted more of a wait-and-see approach, delaying their planned September reopenings until October. ",2021-08-12,tech,CNN
"Major companies are recruiting more HBCU grads than ever before, administrators say","Public outrage spread globally after the widely viewed video of Floyd's death at the hands of former officers in Minneapolis circulated in May 2020. That motivated many Fortune 500 companies to do more to improve racial equity in the United States, including bolstering the ranks of Black Americans working in Corporate America.Since then, HBCU leaders say they've been flooded with millions of dollars in donations from major companies as well as billionaire philanthropists like MacKenzie Scott, Michael Bloomberg and the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation.The schools' leaders caution that it's too early to say with certainty how many more Black college graduates are actually getting hired by major companies, but so far they've seen a substantial rise in the number of internships and job interviews provided by major brands.""In my 24-year career in higher education, all in career services, I cannot recall a time when recruitment efforts at HBCUs have been this high and have stayed this high,"" said Seana Coulter, director of the center for career development at Morgan State University, an HBCU in Baltimore.She says MSU's online job portal for students saw a 263% increase in employer logins between July 1, 2020, and June 30, 2021, with major companies like Apple (AAPL), Bank of America (BAC) and Estee Lauder reaching out for the first time ever.""We had a 73% increase in the numbers of events hosted by employers over the same period of time,"" Coulter said. ""We saw a surge in organizations wishing to recruit from Morgan's campus all stating they were diversifying their workforce. The surge has not stopped. It's just been a constant flow ever since it's started. I would say it's been record numbers.""Coulter also began serving as co-chair of the National Association of Colleges & Employers' HBCU affinity group in January of 2020 before stepping down in July. She says most of the group's estimated 130 members, who serve as administrators and career service staffers at a wide swath of the nation's 107 HBCUs, have seen a sharp rise in corporate engagement and outreach over the last year.""All of us were talking about how we could best handle the volume,"" Coulter said. ""One of the biggest conversations has been how can we connect them better with the academic departments.""At Howard University, career outreach from major corporations has increased ""100%"" over the last year, according Debbi Jarvis, the school's senior vice president of corporate relations.""It's doubled,"" Jarvis told CNN Business earlier this month. ""They actually want to engage with students, even virtually, to increase their pipeline and be deliberate about it.""The median full-time starting salary for Howard grads is now about $72,680, according to the school's latest exit survey for graduating students. Howard says JPMorgan Chase (JPM), Deloitte, Procter & Gamble (PG), Goldman Sachs and McKinsey & Co. rank among the top 25 companies that recruit at the university. That list also includes Accenture (ACN), Microsoft (MSFT), Facebook (FB), Apple and Google (GOOG), which has a tech partnership with the school.The added corporate engagement for Howard has helped it recruit more high school graduates and increase enrollment, according to Howard University provost Anthony Wutoh.""In my 25-year experience with Howard University, this is the most significant interest that I've seen corporations demonstrate in Howard students,"" Wutoh told CNN Business on Monday. ""Our efforts to build partnerships and programs that benefit Howard students have led us to this unprecedented time in history where even more corporations are realizing the value of a Howard education.""Prairie View A&M University, an HBCU in the Houston metro area, saw a 56% rise in the number of companies participating in its spring virtual career fair. The number of companies participating in the school's fall semester career fair jumped from 122 in 2019 to 233 in 2020, according to Munir Quddus, professor of economics and dean of the college of business at the school.Quddus estimates that corporate outreach has increased 20% to 25% over the last year from companies like Charles Schwab (SCHW), TD Ameritrade (AMTD) and IBM (IBM) .The school also has received a major rise in contributions from companies like Chevron and Halliburton.""We've definitely seen an uptick,"" Quddus told CNN Business. ""Companies are not just interested in hiring more students, but also in building partnerships and providing internships.""Graduates from less-prominent HBCUs are also being interviewed more, according to Nicole Tinson, CEO of HBCU 20x20, a nonprofit that connects black college grads with top companies.Tinson says her organization has been more helpful for graduates from less-famous HBCUs, like her Dillard University alma mater in New Orleans. She launched HBCU 20x20 in 2017 to help grads who historically haven't been recruited for jobs at the same level as graduates of traditional colleges and universities, find career opportunities with elite employers.She says at least 250 new companies, including Yahoo, Mattel (MAT), TEG (TGNA) and the NBA, have been added to HBCU 20x20's career services database this year.""We're just really excited about the direction of the work that we're doing,"" Tinson told CNN Business in July.Tinson said HBCU 20x20 started its journey four years ago by reaching out to major companies to court them to participate in its career fairs, but that dynamic shifted dramatically last year.""It's very rare that we reach out to companies,"" Tinson added. ""We're at the point now where companies are reaching out to us.""",2021-08-12,business,CNN
Facebook could be forced to sell off GIF platform Giphy in response to UK regulators,"Facebook (FB) could soon be required to spin off Giphy in response to concerns by UK regulators, and give up control of that company's massive library of GIFs — the animated images used by millions to express emotions and reactions across the internet. UK antitrust regulators said Thursday that the acquisition, which Facebook announced last year, risks reducing competition in advertising and social media.In a provisional finding, the UK's Competition and Markets Authority (CMA) said Facebook's control over Giphy could allow it to cut off other social media sites' access to Giphy's images. Giphy's services currently integrate with services like Twitter, Snapchat, iMessage and Slack. The finding is a blow to Facebook's global aspirations amid intense antitrust scrutiny by governments around the world, and a potential red flag for other Big Tech companies pursuing acquisitions in this regulatory climate.While far from the largest deal Facebook has ever done, the Giphy acquisition — reportedly for $400 million — could be the company's first high-profile deal to be unwound by government officials since Facebook began confronting questions about its powerful position in digital markets several years ago. And it shows how closely officials are watching Facebook's every move.In a statement, a Facebook spokesperson said the company disagrees with the finding and that it lacks evidence. ""This merger is in the best interest of people and businesses in the UK — and around the world — who use Giphy and our services,"" the spokesperson said. ""We will continue to work with the CMA to address the misconception that the deal harms competition.""In its initial announcement of the deal, Facebook had vowed to grant third parties the same level of access to Giphy's content as before. Less than a month after the acquisition was announced, however, the CMA said it was looking into it. The CMA said Thursday that Giphy had been planning to expand its growing advertising business to the UK before the Facebook acquisition, a move that could have given UK brands a new way to promote themselves and provided a direct challenger to Facebook in the advertising market. ""However, Facebook terminated Giphy's paid advertising partnerships following the deal, meaning an important source of potential competition has been lost,"" the CMA said in a blog post. A related document by the agency said that only a full spin-off of Giphy from Facebook would be enough to correct the harms to competition. ""A full divestiture of Giphy would represent a comprehensive and effective remedy,"" the agency said. ""At this point we have not identified any smaller divestiture package that would be similarly effective.""The CMA is soliciting public feedback on its investigation and proposed remedy and is expected to issue a final decision by Oct. 6.",2021-08-12,tech,CNN
The original Barneys department store is turning into a Spirit Halloween,"Spirit Halloween stores pop up around the country every year ahead of the fall holiday. For the most part, they inhabit the corpses of out-of-business stores. But this opening feels particularly spooky. Barneys opened in 1923 and was an icon of America's luxury clothing world for decades. But the department store filed for bankruptcy in 2019 and officially shut its doors in 2020. In 2020 alone, Lord & Taylor went out of business, Neiman Marcus filed for bankruptcy.Every year, Spirit Halloween, which calls itself the ""No. 1 Halloween costume store,"" takes over vacant retail spaces across the US for the few months leading up to Halloween, selling costumes and decorations. Spirit Halloween has more than 1,400 stores across the United States, making it the ""the largest Halloween retailer in North America,"" according to the company's website. Spirit Halloween has not yet responded to CNN Business' request for comment.Spirit Halloween stores are seasonal pop-ups, so after October, 101 7th Avenue will just be the ghost of Barneys past.",2021-08-12,business,CNN
"This startup is creating 'real' dairy, without cows","California-based Perfect Day uses fungi to make dairy protein that is ""molecularly identical"" to the protein in cow's milk, says co-founder Ryan Pandya. That means it can be used to make dairy products such as cheese and yogurt.""We were interested in the question of what is in milk ... that gives it incredible versatility and nutrition that is somehow missing from the plant-based milks,"" says Pandya. Perfect Day has assembled the gene that codes for whey protein in cow's milk, and introduced it into a fungus. When the fungus is grown in fermentation tanks, it produces whey protein, which is then filtered and dried into a powder used in products including cheese and ice cream — which are already on the shelves in the United States and Hong Kong.""[It's for] people who still love dairy, but want to feel better about it for themselves, for the planet, and for the animal,"" says Pandya.  Fermented fungi Although Perfect Day's protein contains no lactose, hormones or cholesterol, it isn't suitable for people with a dairy allergy. But as the process involves no animals, Pandya describes the product as ""vegan-friendly."" It's also good for the environment. By removing cows from the equation, the production of milk is ""dramatically more efficient,"" says Pandya, producing up to 97% fewer greenhouse gas emissions than conventional dairy.In 2020, Perfect Day launched Brave Robot ice cream with The Urgent Company, and partnered with ice cream brands N!ck's and Graeter's to make its products available in 5,000 stores across the United States. The company is already reaching an international market, with its protein used in Hong Kong's Ice Age ice creams, which taste similar to regular supermarket brands — and unlike some plant-based dairy alternatives, there's no taste of coconut, banana, or other base flavors. The next product in development is cream cheese, due to be released later in 2021, says Pandya. A rapidly growing marketPerfect Day isn't the only company looking to science for sustainable dairy solutions. California startup New Culture is also developing cheese products without cows through a fermentation process, and TurtleTree Labs is creating milk — including human milk — from cultured cells.  According to figures from the Good Food Institute — a nonprofit that aims to boost innovation in alternative proteins — $590 million was invested in fermented alternative proteins in 2020, and $300 million of that went to Perfect Day. Plant-based milk accounted for 15% of US milk sales in 2020 and is expected to grow, says Mirte Gosker, acting managing director of the Good Food Institute in Asia Pacific.One challenge for companies is getting regulatory approval, and another is the higher price of innovative products, says Gosker. Perfect Day's ice cream retails for about the same as high-end brands like Häagen-Dazs or Ben & Jerry's. Many countries are eager to develop food-tech innovation. Singapore, where Perfect Day recently established a research and development lab with a government-backed agency, is ""leading the way with its regulatory framework,"" Gosker says. Support from ""governments has a big role to play here, to invest in open-access R&D and in infrastructure,"" she adds.Pandya says the startup is also seeking regulatory approval in Canada, India and Europe, as well as looking for partners in the dairy industry. ""We're developing the kinder, greener way to make your favorite foods starting in the dairy aisle, and we can't do that alone,"" says Pandya.",2021-08-12,business,CNN
Bill Gates pledges $1.5 billion to climate projects in the infrastructure bill,"The $1.2 trillion bipartisan infrastructure bill — which still needs to be passed by the House — has more than $100 billion dedicated to addressing climate change, from sweeping programs that address extreme weather to electric school buses. Part of this is $25 billion in funding to the DOE for demonstration projects via public-private partnerships, which will include Breakthrough Energy Catalyst. The Wall Street Journal first reported the donations.Breakthrough Energy's Catalyst program hopes to accumulate up to $15 billion to fund ""climate smart technologies"" through public and private financing across different industries. Gates has frequently stated the ultimate goal is to reach a net-zero carbon emission economy by 2050. The DOE-sponsored projects that Catalyst will help to fast track include sustainable aviation fuel and green hydrogen, which could provide power without fossil fuels. Other projects direct air capture, which would capture carbon dioxide straight from the atmosphere, and long-duration energy storage. ""Avoiding a climate disaster will require a new industrial revolution. We need to make the technologies and products that don't cause emissions as cheap as those that do, reducing what I call Green Premiums, so the whole world can afford them and reach our climate goals,"" Gates said in a statement, adding that a public-private partnership will speed up the deployment of these technologies.Scott Sklar, the energy director of George Washington University's Environment & Energy Management Institute, said that though public-private partnerships for the climate were ongoing and common, he hasn't seen one of this scale. ""Gates is gambling a little bit,"" Sklar said. ""As many leaders are saying, we need to accelerate technology adoption if we're going to meet some of these climate goals and it's going to take some risks.""Jonah Goldman, the managing director for Breakthrough Energy, said that the partnership allows flexibility on both sides to scale large, complex solutions to carbon-free emissions. ""There's nothing binary about climate, the solution is completely reinstituting a foundation for our modern lifestyle,"" Goldman said. Gates has collaborated with the public sector before. In June, Breakthrough Energy Catalyst and the European Commission announced a partnership to boost investments in critical climate technologies that will enable a net-zero economy.-- CNN's Katie Lobosco and Tami Luhby contributed to this report.",2021-08-12,business,CNN
"If you build it, they will pay: 'Field of Dreams' tickets cost $1,400","Baseball celebrates the myth of its rural roots tonight when the New York Yankees meet the Chicago White Sox in a game adjacent to the field in rural Dyersville, Iowa, population 4,000, where the iconic 1989 movie ""Field of Dreams"" was filmed. Fans are paying record amounts to attend the game, with most who bought tickets on the secondary market spending more than $1,400 to attend.The prices are by far the highest average price ever for a regular season game, and have only been topped by a handful of World Series games, such as Game 4 of the 2016 World Series between two championship-starved teams as the Cleveland Indians met the Chicago Cubs at Wrigley Field in Chicago. The average ticket price on the resale market that night was a record $3,500 on StubHub and $4,200 according to its rival SeatGeek.StubHub says the average for Thursday's game on its site is $1,400, while SeatGeek says the average price of tickets sold on its site is $1,557. Tickets have a face value of either $375 or $425, and were sold to fans in Iowa and White Sox season ticket holders who won lotteries for the right to buy about 8,000 seats at the temporary stadium in Dyersville, Iowa.""There are several factors, including the tight supply of tickets available on the resale market,"" said Chris Layden, spokesperson for SeatGeek. ""And every seat is about the same. There's no nosebleed seats. Sometimes you'll see the average price be really high but you can still pay a third of that and get in the door for a cheap seat. But that's not the case this time.""The game was originally planned to be played last year but was canceled because of the shortened, fanless baseball season.The two teams involved are also adding to demand. The White Sox, whose home is a four-hour drive away from Dyersville, are in first place at this time of the season for the first time since 2012.  And their opponent Yankees are one of the best-drawing road teams in baseball year-in and year-out.""This has a whole life of it's own,"" said Adam Budelli, head of partnerships and business development at StubHub. ""Adding in the fact that it's two marque teams, it's a perfect storm for this event.""Other baseball ticket prices are up tooBut it's not just this game drawing higher prices and higher demand for tickets. Attendance comparisons to 2019 are difficult because, for much of the season, there have been restrictions on how many seats most stadiums could sell because of Covid. But, as is the case with so many items seeing large price increases this year, limited supply and pent-up demand translated into higher resale prices. SeatGeek says the average price of baseball tickets sold on its site this year has been $81, up 40% from the $58 average in 2019, the last time fans were allowed to attend regular season games. StubHub's figures show a 33% increase for baseball tickets.Fans are hungry for live events in all the sports, as well as for attending concerts and other events said Budelli.""People want to get out there, whether it's baseball, concerts, or other live events, they're ready to go back with friends and family,"" he said.The movie's celebration of baseballThe site of the movie has attracted a regular but modest stream of fans since the film came out. Attendance is normally free, as fans can play catch or sit in the small wooden bleachers on the original field. Thursday's game is being played on a different field nearby. Given its remote location, the field often has only a handful of fans visiting at any one time, except when buses arrive.The sky-high prices are a stunning contrast to the prices discussed in the movie. The film, based on W. P. Kinsella's 1982 novel ""Shoeless Joe,"" is a mythical tale of a farmer, Ray Kinsella, played by Kevin Costner, who builds a baseball field on his farm. A voice he alone hears tells him ""If you build it, he will come."" He decides the voice is referring to the ghost of Shoeless Joe Jackson, a White Sox great from a century ago who was banned for life from the game when his teammates threw the 1919 World Series. And once he builds the field the ghost of Jackson and other players do arrive to play baseball on the field.When Costner's character is at risk of losing the farm because of the lost crops he's not growing, his friend and daughter convince him that fans will pay to visit and gain peace from communing with baseball.""People will come, Ray. They'll come to Iowa for reasons they can't even fathom. They'll arrive at your door as innocent as children, longing for the past,"" predicts his friend played by James Earl Jones. ""Of course, we won't mind if you look around, you'll say. It's only $20 per person. They'll pass over the money without even thinking about it: for it is money they have and peace they lack.""Jones' character's speech that follows is well known to many baseball fans as he explains their love of the game.""The one constant through all the years, Ray, has been baseball,"" he said. ""America has rolled by like an army of steamrollers. It has been erased like a blackboard, rebuilt and erased again. But baseball has marked the time. This field, this game: it's a part of our past, Ray. It reminds of us of all that once was good and it could be again.""",2021-08-12,business,CNN
Firms want help to measure their carbon footprint,"Many firms are citing a lack of finance as holding them back from the ability to quantify their carbon footprint.In May, the government called on small businesses to lead the charge and pledge to reach net zero by 2050 or sooner. This refers to the total amount of greenhouse gases released into the atmosphere as a result of the activities of a business. It can be reduced by improving the sustainability of a business. Measures such as cutting transport and heating costs or using less packaging can drive down the carbon footprint of a company and help it reach 'net zero' - the balance between the amount of greenhouse gas produced and the amount removed from the atmosphere.Rachel Douglas, who runs The Laundry Lodge in Northumberland, says she ""has no clue"" how to work out her companies carbon footprint and ""wouldn't know where to start"". Only one in 10 of over a thousand firms surveyed by the British Chambers of Commerce (BCC) are measuring their carbon footprint and currently 26% of larger firms with more than 50 employees are measuring theirs.""It would be useful to have clear information from the government on how to reduce the carbon we use,"" Ms Douglas tells the BBC.  The findings also show that one in five businesses don't fully understand the term ""net zero"", and almost a third have yet to seek advice or information to help them develop a plan to reach net zero or improve their sustainability.  In order to reduce the environmental impact, Ms Douglas uses over 600 metres of washing line to dry 90% of the items she cleans. During high season, her laundry business cleans between 5,000 and 6,000 separate items per month, costing her Â£260 in electricity and a dedicated member of staff working till 10pm each day to peg items to the lines.   For the remaining 10% of items, she uses three higher energy consuming industrial driers, one of which is more eco-friendly but cost her an extra Â£1,000. Additional cleaning costs due to the pandemic have also meant less money is available to invest in sustainability. ""If there was any tax relief to make it easier to buy expensive eco-friendly products, that would be a huge help,"" she explains.Almost two thirds of businesses surveyed said they don't see net zero targets as a high priority in the wake of the pandemic, although nearly half said their customers are worried about the environment. Though the government does publish emission factors which allow firms to work out their carbon footprint based on their activities, Ms Douglas says she has ""had to take a lot of decisions"" herself to make the business better for the environment because she wasn't clear on government advice. John Barrett, a professor of energy and climate policy at the University of Leeds, says this advice is ""not widely known and not easy to find"" and the alternative is to pay consultancies between Â£20,000-30,000 to calculate the carbon footprint. ""If we want [small businesses] to make a meaningful contribution to reaching our net zero targets, we need to provide a free and professional service allowing them to understand their carbon impacts and showing them how they could reduce their impact.""Historically, the government had a scheme through the Carbon Trust which meant that smaller firms could access advice for free but the scheme was later privatised.Dentist Jason Stokes, who runs the private Cathedral Street Dental practice in Norwich, also says the government carbon calculation spreadsheets aren't ""specific enough"", as they fail to include clinical waste which is particularly damaging for the environment.Clinical waste has to be incinerated at a cost of Â£2,000 per year for his business, he says.""It makes it more challenging and difficult to prioritise carbon reduction when the government's support is so generic,"" he tells the BBC. Mr Stokes has invested in extra insulation and energy saving light bulbs to make the business better for the environment, but the pandemic has meant higher ventilation costs and more imported single use products - counteracting that carbon saving.   Builder Tom Veale, who owns a construction business based in Newent, also says he has ""no idea"" how to calculate his company's carbon footprint.""It would be useful to have help on calculating but without tax relief or any incentives what's the point of working our carbon footprint out?"" The business spends over Â£600,000 annually on construction materials such as concrete and timber and as almost all are imported, Mr Veale said it's ""even harder"" to measure their effect on the environment. And Professor Sam Turner from the group of manufacturing research centres High Value Manufacturing Catapult says that that without ""widely adopted standards"" for carbon accounting across supply chains, there is ""no market incentive to make the necessary investments to reduce carbon footprint"".Tina Bowden, owner of the Lavender Bake House in Stroud says she would also welcome government advice on how to improve. ""I don't have the staff to spare to do the paperwork for carbon calculation and there's no financial support to make it viable for us,"" she explains.. The business spends Â£25000 on renewable energy per month and that rather than making a 20% saving on imported produce from wholesalers, she tries to buy local products as much as possible.""Any recyclable packaging is twice the price so it would help to have some sort of government subsidy so we don't soak the cost up ourselves,"" she says.A spokesperson from the Department for Business, Energy & Industrial Strategy told the BBC: ""We know that some businesses may find this daunting, but our 'Together for Our Planet' campaign is specifically targeted at providing SMEs with the practical tools, resources and advice they need to understand their emissions and develop a plan to tackle them.""But Mike Cherry, the national chairman of the Federation of Small Businesses (FSB), is concerned that small business owners are strapped for time and money as their focus is squarely on recovery.""The starting point here should really be concrete measures to empower small firms - which want to do the right thing - to make the transport, energy and logistical changes that will reduce their emissions,"" he added.  ",2021-08-13,business,BBC
Tobacco giant Philip Morris raises bid for respiratory drugmaker,"Tobacco giant Philip Morris has raised its bid to buy respiratory drugmaker Vectura to more than Â£1bn. Vectura makes inhaled medicines and devices to treat respiratory illnesses such as asthma, and counts Novartis and GSK among its customers.The Marlboro cigarette maker increased its offer to Â£1.65 ($2.29) per share after US private equity firm Carlyle offered Â£958m ($1.3bn) on Friday.Vectura has not yet responded to requests for comment on the new bid.It previously said it was backing Carlyle's offer and withdrawing its recommendation for Philip Morris' earlier bid.The London-listed company said on Friday that it believed it could better positioned under Carlyle's ownership, noting the ""reported uncertainties relating to the impact on Vectura's wider stakeholders arising as a result of the possibility of the company being owned by PMI (Philip Morris)"".Vectura has also agreed to develop a potential inhaled treatment for Covid-19 with Inspira, a UK-based pharmaceuticals company which focuses on developing therapies for respiratory and infectious diseases.In a statement, Philip Morris said: ""The PMI (Philip Morris International) increased offer values the entire issued and to be issued ordinary share capital of Vectura at approximately Â£1.02bn ($1.41bn).""""PMI intends to operate Vectura as an autonomous business unit that will form the backbone of its inhaled therapeutics business,"" the tobacco company added.The latest offer represents a premium of 10p per share to the rival offer of Â£1.55 a share by Carlyle Group.The fresh bid comes after Philip Morris said it could stop selling cigarettes in the UK in 10 years' time as it focuses on alternatives, such as heated tobacco.The firm indicated it would welcome a government ban on cigarettes and said ""strong regulation"" was needed to ""help solve the problem of cigarette smoking once and for all"".However, health charity Ash said it was hard to take such claims seriously from the firm responsible for selling over a tenth of cigarettes globally.",2021-08-08,business,BBC
How can new technology protect outdoor workers?,"Cesar David Gonzalez does a bit of everything, from house painting to carpentry. The self-employed 56-year-old lives in the San Fernando Valley, one of the hottest parts of Los Angeles. He works six or seven days a week, even when temperatures surpass 40Â°C and when wildfire smoke clogs the air. But it is when he is pouring concrete that he really feels the impact of the heat. Typically, Mr Gonzalez and his crew check the weather before they head out so they can try to plan where they will stand according to the sun's position.In July and August they start work an hour earlier than usual, at 07:00, and shift around so that they're working in the shade where possible. But while laying concrete it is hard to dip into the shade, if it even exists, to take breaks. Occasionally, Mr Gonzalez's co-workers will feel so faint that they have to sit in the car with the air conditioning on, and some even feel the need to leave a job site early.Mr Gonzalez and his hardworking colleagues are not the only outdoor workmen in Los Angeles who are forced to adapt to the scorching heat.  A seller of iced desserts moves his cart around a park so that he can rest in the shade. A recycler sets out with a torch before the sun has fully emerged. A postal delivery worker, who walks over 10 miles a day, gratefully accepts cold drinks from residents. Such adaptations to their work days are not just necessary, however, they can be life saving. Heat can kill. It lowers a worker's ability to concentrate and leads to notable increases in workplace injuries, research suggests. Poor sleep makes heat-related illness more likely; and high temperatures can also make it challenging to sleep. For workers operating heavy machinery, this can be a lethal combination.But rising temperatures, linked to human-caused climate change, damage economies even beyond the immediate health impacts. Above a threshold of 20-25Â°C, each additional degree is associated with around a 2% drop in task productivity. By 2030, the global cost of lower labour productivity due to heat is estimated to reach Â£1.8 trillion per year: West Africa will be especially hard hit.Yet, for reasons including financial need, workplace pressure, and a lack of awareness of the health impacts of high temperatures, many people continue to work past their heat tolerance.Outdoor workers, notably those within the construction and agricultural industry, are the most affected by rising heat.Undocumented farmworkers who are paid per unit may be especially vulnerable, working under gruelling conditions with little shade and little opportunity to complain. The self-employed, informally employed and those on zero-hour contracts may also feel they have no choice but to work at all hours.Even the fittest people in the world are susceptible, like the Olympic athletes collapsing in the baking heat and humidity of Tokyo.Sometimes workers who have managed to climb the career ladder may actually be at greater risk of heat strain. This was one finding of research on outdoor workers by Dr Jennifer Runkle, an environmental epidemiologist at the North Carolina Institute for Climate Studies, and colleagues. ""This is largely due to the fact that workers with more education typically hold managerial positions and spend less of their work week outdoors in the heat,"" Dr Runkle explains. ""As a result, these workers aren't fully acclimated to working outdoors in the heat and are typically only required to do so intermittently, placing this group at higher risk.""There are some easy wins to reduce heat strain. Optimising work hours to avoid workers being out when the sun is at its hottest may have the greatest effect on employee health. In warm countries like Spain and Greece, there's already a culture of resting during the hottest part of the day. India's National Disaster Management Authority has also advised avoiding strenuous work between 12.00pm and 15.00pm. Individualised, wearable sensors could be a useful tool for determining likely heat strain. Dr Runkle believes that this technology would be especially useful in industries like construction, mining and agriculture. Early adoption of these devices would be a win-win, according to Dr Runkle: boosting productivity and reducing injury ""while ensuring the health and safety of an ageing workforce and eliminating the risk of heat strain"".Wider take-up of wearable heat sensors by employees, employers and healthcare providers would also help overcome gaps in heat awareness. ""One important finding we discovered in our research with outdoor workers is that there was a mismatch between workers' perception of heat risk and their actual exposure to extreme heat captured by wearables,"" said Dr Runkle. Another aid could be wearable cooling technology, but such devices are mainly in the research and development phase, or limited in availability. One such device is Sony's Reon Pocket 2, which it launched in April. A wearable cooling or warming device worn inside clothing, it uses electrical conductors that transfer heat when electricity is run through them. While the company is eventually planning to launch the product overseas, it's currently only available in Japan.The first Reon Pocket model sold 10,000 units within two days of its launch. While the new model has a special mode for keeping golf players cool, it's apparently also being used by some outdoor workers.There are promising examples of companies taking more responsibility for protecting workers from oppressive heat, such as managers of bus drivers in Jinan, China. Responsible employers should be providing drinks and shaded rest areas to outdoor workers. Some in Ahmedabad, India have also been supplying ice packs. Regularly scheduled or mandatory rest breaks could help where employees are over-exerting themselves. Of course, not all employers are responsible, which is why many campaigners are calling for enforceable heat standards and stronger workplace protections.More Technology of BusinessIn many countries, occupational heat health is a matter of guidance, rather than requirements to safeguard workers. In the US, a proposed heat health law that has been languishing is the AsunciÃ³n Valdivia Heat Illness and Fatality Prevention Act, named after a 53-year-old farmworker who died in 2004 after picking grapes for 10 hours at over 40C.Clinicians like Cheryl L Holder, who now teaches medicine at Florida International University, are also doing what they can. She recalls a patient who worked in a garden centre, who was overheating in ways that were worsening her diabetes. She wrote a letter to that patient's employer, encouraging them to give her patient time off.""I don't have any real enforcement other than the goodwill of the employers,"" she acknowledges. ""But oftentimes, I will see some improvement there.""As doctors witness the mounting toll of heat, and as officials debate policy measures, people like Mr Gonzalez will continue to find ways to keep themselves healthy in an ever-warmer climate. ""This year has become more hot,"" he acknowledges. In the future, even fit and healthy workers like him may reach the limits of their endurance, making larger-scale heat adaptation a searing necessity.Some of Christine Ro's research for this article was supported by the Social Science Research Council and the Japan Foundation Center for Global Partnership, through the Abe Fellowship for Journalists.",2021-08-12,business,BBC
UK inhaler firm Vectura backs Â£1bn bid by Marlboro-maker,"Directors at UK inhaler company Vectura have recommended shareholders accept a Â£1bn bid from tobacco giant Philip Morris International (PMI).The Marlboro cigarette maker's offer of Â£1.65 per share beat a rival bid from US private equity group Carlyle, whose final offer was Â£1.55 per share. Vectura makes inhaled medicines and devices to treat respiratory illnesses such as asthma.Dozens of health groups had urged Vectura to reject the firm's offer.The health groups warned that the deal would significantly harm the future prospects of the healthcare company, as it will deter top lung researchers and scientists unwilling to work for a tobacco company. Shares in Vectura, which counts Novartis and GSK among its customers, have soared 33% in value since Carlyle's first offer in May.Philip Morris recently said it could stop selling cigarettes in the UK in 10 years' time as it focuses on alternatives, such as heated tobacco.The firm indicated it would welcome a government ban on cigarettes and said ""strong regulation"" was needed to ""help solve the problem of cigarette smoking once and for all"".However, health charity Ash said it was hard to take such claims seriously from the firm responsible for selling over a tenth of cigarettes globally.Labour's shadow health secretary Jonathan Ashworth said: ""Philip Morris's attempted takeover of a key player in lung health products beggars belief. It is bitterly disappointing that Vectura have so far failed to exercise duty of care to patients and scientists and reject this takeover by big tobacco. ""This is now a test for Sajid Javid. When we know smoking causes so much serious illness and premature death, it's time this government takes the right course, stands up to this tobacco giant and blocks this takeover.""Sources close to the deal tell me the company feels their primary duty is to shareholders and note that PMI must be allowed a chance to transition to its stated goal of deriving half its revenue from non tobacco products within a decade.Some have also questioned whether this deal is any different in principle from oil and gas companies investing in renewable energy. However, this decision will be treated with dismay by health groups and will disappoint many shareholder groups who hoped this deal be an acid test of whether shareholders really prized wider societal goals over getting the best price. PMI will need to convince 51% of shareholders to take the money for it to take control. Many other shareholders may feel uncomfortable being a minority shareholder in a tobacco company subsidiary. A letter sent by more than 20 UK, US and European health organisations on Thursday had urged Vectura's board to ""put sustainability and ethics first"".The signatories included the bosses of Asthma UK, the British Lung Foundation, the Royal Society for Public Health and the Royal College of Physicians, as well as public health directors of several councils and some distinguished medical professors from King's College, Imperial College and University College London (UCL).""If PMI were to acquire Vectura, PMI could then profit from treating the very illnesses that its products cause,"" they wrote.One of the health groups' key concerns is that Vectura's research links with various universities and hospitals could be compromised. The signatories warned that Vectura could be blocked from participating in clinical trials, thus ""disrupting crucial drug development"".They added that professional partnerships could also be affected, since Vectura won the most contracts in 2020 to develop treatments for respiratory disease and lung cancer.The takeover battle began in May with a Â£958m bid from Carlyle, which received early backing from Vectura's board.But on 8 August, Philip Morris increased its offer to Â£1.65 per share, which totalled a bid of about Â£1.02bn ($1.41bn) from the Marlboro cigarette-maker.London-listed shares of Vectura closed at Â£1.63 on Thursday after hitting a more than five-year high of Â£1.76 pence on Tuesday. ",2021-08-12,business,BBC
"Photographer, farmer and plasterer job ads rise","The first week of August saw 1.7m active job ads in the UK, new research has found. Job ads for photographers and broadcasting equipment operators saw the largest rise, up 19% on last week, according to the Recruitment & Employment Confederation (REC).Demand for insurance underwriters is up 15.5%, while new roles for agricultural staff rose by nearly 10%.The spike comes in the three weeks since Covid restrictions were lifted.Job ads for plasterers are also up by 8%, while adverts for decorators are up by 4.7%.The REC also found that the last three weeks have seen the highest numbers of new job postings since mid-May. But job adverts were down for playworkers by over 20%, while ads for teaching and educational professionals declined by 14.7%.  Four out of the UK's top ten hiring hotspots were in North West England, while four out of the bottom ten local areas for growth in active job postings were in Scotland.The highest growth in the first week of August was Blackpool with over 5%, closely followed by West Dunbartonshire, the Wirral and Norwich and East Norfolk. The job advert data was analysed between 26 July and 8 August 2021. Active job advert postings for nurses saw no change during this period. Kate Shoesmith, Deputy chief executive of the REC said that employers are ""desperate"" to find ""good staff to help them recover and grow in the coming months"". ""Recruiters are working flat out to help find the best people but there are shortages of workers in almost every sector across the country,"" she explained. While she said that this is ""starting to translate"" into higher pay and better benefits for some workers in particular sectors, she added that employers also need ""more support from government"", including a more flexible immigration system and an ""effective, long-term plan on skills."" ""We mustn't overlook the thousands of workers who need a chance to skill up and improve their earnings but this alone won't meet demand,"" she added. ",2021-08-12,business,BBC
The $8bn EV company youâve probably never heard of,,2021-08-12,business,BBC
Can Americans pull the plug on petrol-powered cars?,"US President Joe Biden wants Americans to switch to electric vehicles. Carmakers are on board - but are consumers willing to pull the plug on petrol?Tom Beckett, a former truck and bus driver, says he's driven at least two million miles in his lifetime, and he is all for burning less gasoline to protect the environment. But like many Americans, he is ""just not ready"" to buy a low-emission electric car because of so-called range anxiety - the fear he won't be able to go far enough on a single charge.The 62-year-old lives in rural Arkansas where he regularly has to drive long distances to get around, and electric vehicle (EV) charging points are few and far between.""Unless the battery capacity and the range doubles, I don't think electric cars will ever become a big deal in states like this,"" he tells the BBC. ""People need the confidence to know their cars won't run out of juice. Otherwise they'll just stick with gas.""Transport accounted for almost of a third of US emissions in 2019 and the White House has pledged to bring this down. But people like Mr Beckett pose a big challenge to a new administration plan to make zero-emission vehicles account for half of all automobiles sold in the US by 2030.The goal, which is non-binding, has the backing of major automakers Ford, General Motors and Chrysler-owner Stellantis. Mr Biden has also restored tailpipe emissions rules from the Obama era, weakened under Donald Trump, which will put pressure on car companies to make greener vehicles.But none of it will make much difference if consumers don't buy in. Outside of a few major metropolitan areas, EVs still aren't very common in the US and the country accounted for just 2% of new EV sales globally last year, compared to 10% from Europe. Moreover, while just under half of US adults say they would support a proposal to phase out production of gasoline-powered cars and trucks, a similar proportion would oppose it, according to a Pew Center survey published in June. A major concern about low-emission vehicles is price. Even with federal subsidies, EVs and hybrids tend to cost more than pure petrol cars, even though the vehicles are more economical to run. However, the bigger issue - in a country that clocks up more miles per driver than almost anywhere else - is range. Currently there are just 100,000 public charging points for plug-in electric vehicles across the US, a third of which are in California - a state that has its own, tougher transport emissions rules.At the same time, the typical range of a fully electric car before it needs to recharge is 250-300 miles, although it can be as low as 130 miles. ""The US has this love affair with cars and the open road, and there's a great allure in driving long distances,"" says John Heitmann, professor emeritus of history at Dayton University and an expert in US automotive culture.  ""In Europe or Japan you might take the train, but it is very common for Americans drive 1,000 miles or more when they go on vacation or visit the national parks. Electrification has got to fit in around this.""The Biden administration wants to build 500,000 charging points by 2030, and has put aside $7.5bn to fund it in the new infrastructure bill. But that's half of what the president previously hoped to spend and ""falls far short"", according to 28 Democrat lawmakers, who say more like $85bn is needed to build out an adequate charging network. Yet experts believe the White House's 2030 goal is achievable and that it is only a matter of time before gas-powered vehicles start to be phased out in the US.Dan Neil, an automotive columnist for the Wall Street Journal, says battery technology is improving fast, prices are falling, and consumers will see the benefits.""EVs soon will be cheaper to buy and cheaper to operate than gasoline-powered cars,"" he says. ""And as global regulations clamp down on tailpipe emissions, old cars will get less and less satisfying to drive.""He agrees more cash is needed to expand the country's charging infrastructure, but thinks the utilities companies set to profit from electrification will step into the breach. Peer pressure is also likely to play a role.""People want to buy new models of car and gas powered ones will become unfashionable,"" he says. Inevitably, even the US will be dragged along by what happens in the rest of the world, he adds. ""The US can't be the only industrial economy to hang on to gas-powered transportation - it wouldn't be economic for the country, it won't be economic for the people who will drive the cars.""Mr Biden has been clear that part of his plan is about ensuring the US car industry does not fall behind in the fast growing global EV market. Stricter rules on tailpipe emissions in the EU are already forcing continental car makers to change their assembly lines, giving them a head start. ""[Joe Biden's plan] is exactly what the whole car industry has been waiting for and now gives them a clear roadmap,"" says Matthias Schmidt, a European automotive market analyst.""They can now scale their EV operations safe in the knowledge that those investments will go to cover all three major regions - North America, China and Europe - in a technology where standardisation and economies of scale are key."" Still, Mr Biden could face other obstacles. He hopes to expand subsidies to bring down the costs of EVs for buyers and manufacturers as part of his $3.5 trillion Budget plan, but there's no guarantee it will pass. The shift to electrification is also likely to cost jobs, given the typical EV requires around three times less manpower to produce. Dan Ives, an analyst at Wedbush Securities, expects these roles to be replaced in time, but there could be political backlash in states that are home to supply chain jobs, or those that depend on petroleum production such as Texas and Louisiana.Prof Heitt agrees we could see ""big regional impacts"" from the transition, but thinks ultimately the economics of electric vehicles will prevail.""There is always going to be a group of Americans that feel strongly against electric cars,"" he says. ""But there were 17 million horses used for transport in the US around the turn of the 20th Century, and by the 1920s-30s the automobile had taken over.""The question is, are we going to stick with horses or move on to the next technology?"" ",2021-08-12,business,BBC
No auction showdown in battle to buy asthma firm,"The takeover battle between tobacco giant Philip Morris and a US private equity firm for an asthma medicine company will not go to auction.Carlyle said it would not increase its Â£958m ($1.33bn) bid for drugmaker Vectura after Philip Morris had increased its offer to more than Â£1bn.The private equity firm said earlier it considered its final offer of Â£1.55 a share as ""full and fair"".Vectura makes inhaled medicines and devices to treat respiratory illnesses.The firm counts Novartis and GSK among its customers.The takeover of the Vectura had been due to enter a rare head-to-head auction process, after the regulator, the Takeover Panel, gave the two bidders a week to make their best offers for the FTSE 250 firm.The Takeover Panel said all three firms had agreed to the terms of the auction procedure, before Carlyle said it would not increase its bid.Simon Dingemans, a director in Carlyle's European buyout advisory group, said the private equity firm believed its offer was ""in the best interests"" of Vectura. The takeover battle began in May with a Â£958m bid from Carlyle, which received early backing from Vectura's board.But on Sunday, Philip Morris increased its offer to Â£1.65 per share, which totalled a bid of about Â£1.02bn ($1.41bn) from the Marlboro cigarette-maker.London-listed shares of Vectura closed at Â£1.63 on Tuesday after hitting a more than five-year high of Â£1.76 pence earlier in the session. The firm has gained 33% in value since Carlyle's first offer in May.Philip Morris recently said it could stop selling cigarettes in the UK in 10 years' time as it focuses on alternatives, such as heated tobacco.The firm indicated it would welcome a government ban on cigarettes and said ""strong regulation"" was needed to ""help solve the problem of cigarette smoking once and for all"".However, health charity Ash said it was hard to take such claims seriously from the firm responsible for selling over a tenth of cigarettes globally.",2021-08-10,business,BBC
Lord of the Rings: Amazon moves show to UK from New Zealand,"Technology giant Amazon's TV and film business is moving production of its multi-million dollar Lord of the Rings series to the UK from New Zealand.The as-yet-untitled fantasy epic is set thousands of years before the events in JRR Tolkien's books The Hobbit and The Lord of the Rings.The company said the move was part of a plan to expand its production space and consolidate its footprint in the UK.Amazon Studios spent $465m (Â£336.5m) on the first season of the show.With four more seasons expected to be made, that would make it one of the most expensive series in television history.New Zealand's dramatic landscapes were also home to Oscar-winning director Peter Jackson's The Lord of the Rings and The Hobbit movie trilogies.Amazon said work on season one of the show would be completed in the country before production shifts to Britain.In a statement announcing the decision, Vernon Sanders, VP and Co-Head of TV, Amazon Studios thanked ""the people and the government of New Zealand for their hospitality and dedication and for providing The Lord of the Rings series with an incredible place to begin this epic journey."" New Zealand's economic development minister Stuart Nash said he was disappointed by the decision.""I am enormously proud of the New Zealand screen sector. The Amazon Studios' decision in no way reflects the capabilities of our local film industry or the talents of the people who work in it,"" Mr Nash added.Season one of the show is scheduled to make its worldwide debut on Amazon's Prime Video on 22 September next year.The move is set to be a major boost to the UK's film and television production industry as it brings hundreds of millions of dollars into the country.The UK's Department for Digital, Culture, Media and Sport did not immediately respond to a BBC request for comment.",2021-08-13,business,BBC
South Park creators sign $900m deal to make seasons and movies,"The creators of the South Park cartoons have signed a $900m (Â£646m) deal with US media giant ViacomCBS.The agreement will see Trey Parker and Matt Stone make new South Park episodes for the Comedy Central network.The pair are also set to create more than a dozen spinoff movies for Viacom's Paramount+ streaming service.The first project of the deal will be a South Park film scheduled for release later this year.The agreement, which runs to the end of 2027, includes six seasons of the South Park TV show and 14 movies. ""Matt and Trey are world-class creatives who brilliantly use their outrageous humour to skewer the absurdities of our culture and we are excited to expand and deepen our long relationship with them to help fuel Paramount+ and Comedy Central,"" Chris McCarthy of MTV Entertainment and Paramount+ said in a statement.Parker and Stone even made light of the announcement, suggesting that the deal would last a lot longer than officially agreed: ""Comedy Central has been our home for 25 years and we're really happy that they've made a commitment to us for the next 75 years.""South Park debuted in 1997, focussing on the exploits of four boys - Stan Marsh, Kyle Broflovski, Eric Cartman, and Kenny McCormick - in and around the town of South Park in Colorado, USA.It has become infamous for its strong language and often controversial, dark and surreal humour that satirises a broad range of adult issues.The creators have produced more than 300 episodes to date and a movie that was released in 1999.The deal comes as the world's biggest media and technology companies battle for dominance of the global streaming market.In recent months, the entertainment industry has seen billions of dollars-worth of deals to secure popular content.In May, Amazon agreed to buy MGM studios for $8.45bn.  It is one of Hollywood's most famous studios producing classic films such as Some Like It Hot and Singin' In The Rain.",2021-08-06,business,BBC
Lord of the Rings: Amazon moves show to UK from New Zealand,"Technology giant Amazon's TV and film business is moving production of its multi-million dollar Lord of the Rings series to the UK from New Zealand.The as-yet-untitled fantasy epic is set thousands of years before the events in JRR Tolkien's books The Hobbit and The Lord of the Rings.The company said the move was part of a plan to expand its production space and consolidate its footprint in the UK.Amazon Studios spent $465m (Â£336.5m) on the first season of the show.With four more seasons expected to be made, that would make it one of the most expensive series in television history.New Zealand's dramatic landscapes were also home to Oscar-winning director Peter Jackson's The Lord of the Rings and The Hobbit movie trilogies.Amazon said work on season one of the show would be completed in the country before production shifts to Britain.In a statement announcing the decision, Vernon Sanders, vice president and co-head of TV at Amazon Studios thanked ""the people and the government of New Zealand for their hospitality and dedication and for providing The Lord of the Rings series with an incredible place to begin this epic journey."" New Zealand's economic development minister Stuart Nash said he was disappointed by the decision.""I am enormously proud of the New Zealand screen sector. The Amazon Studios' decision in no way reflects the capabilities of our local film industry or the talents of the people who work in it,"" Mr Nash added.Season one of the show is scheduled to make its worldwide debut on Amazon's Prime Video on 22 September next year.The move is set to be a major boost to the UK's film and television production industry as it brings hundreds of millions of dollars into the country.The UK's Department for Digital, Culture, Media and Sport did not immediately respond to a BBC request for comment.",2021-08-13,business,BBC
Ningbo: Global supply fears as China partly shuts major port,"The partial closure of one of China's biggest cargo ports due to the coronavirus has raised fresh concerns about the impact on global trade. Services were shut on Wednesday at a terminal at Ningbo-Zhoushan port after a worker was infected with the Delta variant of Covid-19.Ningbo-Zhoushan in eastern China is the world's third-busiest cargo port.The closure threatens more disruption to supply chains ahead of the key Christmas shopping season.Closing the terminal on Meishan island until further notice will cut the port's capacity for container cargo by about a quarter.It comes as the cost of shipping from China and South East Asia to the East coast of the US has already hit a record high, according to the Freightos Baltic global container freight index.Jason Chiang from Ocean Shipping Consultants told the BBC's Asia Business Report that the global shipping industry is likely to feel the impact of the pandemic for several more months.""We don't expect to see any new shipping capacity until two years down the road. So everything between now and two years will be dependent on how the pandemic plays out,"" he said.Ningbo-Zhoushan is the world's third-biggest cargo port after Shanghai and Singapore.If the terminal remains shut for an extended period it could have an especially large impact on the world economy.In the city of Ningbo, where the port is located, authorities have also suspended inbound and outbound flights to China's capital Beijing.A district close to the port has also been put on partial lockdown as businesses including cinemas, gyms and bars have been shut.The port's closure comes as global trade is usually much heavier in the second half of the year as businesses in Europe and North America prepare for a jump in sales ahead of Christmas and other holidays.This is the second coronavirus-related closure to hit a Chinese port in recent months after Yantian in Shenzhen was shut for several weeks from the end of May.Companies were already struggling to source the goods to keep their business going as the pandemic shut down economies around the world.Global supply chains were put under even more strain when a huge container vessel became stuck in the Suez Canal in March.The Ever Given, which carries cargo between Asia and Europe, blocked the major shipping lane in Egypt for almost a week.That caused huge disruptions and delays to the global shipping industry as vessels were forced to wait for the canal to reopen or take the much longer route around the southern tip of Africa.",2021-08-13,business,BBC
Ningbo: Global supply fears as China partly shuts major port,"The partial closure of one of China's biggest cargo ports due to coronavirus has raised fresh concerns about the impact on global trade. Services were shut on Wednesday at a terminal at Ningbo-Zhoushan port after a worker was infected with the Delta variant of Covid-19.Ningbo-Zhoushan in eastern China is the world's third-busiest cargo port.The closure threatens more disruption to supply chains ahead of the key Christmas shopping season.Closing the terminal on Meishan island until further notice will cut the port's capacity for container cargo by about a quarter.It comes as the cost of shipping from China and South East Asia to the East coast of the US has already hit a record high, according to the Freightos Baltic global container freight index.And some UK businesses were already feeling the pressure of much higher shipping costs.Jason Chiang from Ocean Shipping Consultants told the BBC's Asia Business Report that the global shipping industry is likely to feel the impact of the pandemic for several more months.""We don't expect to see any new shipping capacity until two years down the road. So everything between now and two years will be dependent on how the pandemic plays out,"" he said.Ningbo-Zhoushan is the world's third-biggest cargo port after Shanghai and Singapore.If the terminal remains shut for an extended period it could have an especially large impact on the world economy.In the city of Ningbo, where the port is located, authorities have also suspended inbound and outbound flights to China's capital Beijing.A district close to the port has also been put on partial lockdown as businesses including cinemas, gyms and bars have been shut.The port's closure comes as global trade is usually much heavier in the second half of the year as businesses in Europe and North America prepare for a jump in sales ahead of Christmas and other holidays.This is the second coronavirus-related closure to hit a Chinese port in recent months after Yantian in Shenzhen was partially shut for several weeks from the end of May.Companies were already struggling to source the goods to keep their business going as the pandemic shut down economies around the world.Global supply chains were put under even more strain when a huge container vessel became stuck in the Suez Canal in March.The Ever Given, which carries cargo between Asia and Europe, blocked the major shipping lane in Egypt for almost a week.That caused huge disruptions and delays to the global shipping industry as vessels were forced to wait for the canal to reopen or take the much longer route around the southern tip of Africa.",2021-08-13,business,BBC
Lord of the Rings: Amazon moves show to UK from New Zealand,"Technology giant Amazon's TV and film business is moving production of its multi-million dollar Lord of the Rings series to the UK from New Zealand.The as-yet-untitled fantasy epic is set thousands of years before the events in JRR Tolkien's books The Hobbit and The Lord of the Rings.The company said the move was part of a plan to expand its production space and consolidate its footprint in the UK.Amazon Studios spent $465m (Â£336.5m) on the first season of the show.With four more seasons expected to be made, that would make it one of the most expensive series in television history.New Zealand's dramatic landscapes were also home to Oscar-winning director Peter Jackson's The Lord of the Rings and The Hobbit movie trilogies.Amazon said work on season one of the show would be completed in the country before production shifts to Britain.In a statement announcing the decision, Vernon Sanders, vice president and co-head of TV at Amazon Studios thanked ""the people and the government of New Zealand for their hospitality and dedication and for providing The Lord of the Rings series with an incredible place to begin this epic journey."" New Zealand's economic development minister Stuart Nash said he was disappointed by the decision.""I am enormously proud of the New Zealand screen sector. The Amazon Studios' decision in no way reflects the capabilities of our local film industry or the talents of the people who work in it,"" Mr Nash added.Season one of the show is scheduled to make its worldwide debut on Amazon's Prime Video on 22 September next year.The move is set to be a major boost to the UK's film and television production industry as it brings hundreds of millions of dollars into the country.The UK Culture Secretary Oliver Dowden welcomed the news, telling the BBC: ""Thousands of high quality jobs all across the UK will be created and supported by The Lord of the Rings television series so this is very exciting news.""",2021-08-13,business,BBC
Firms want help to measure their carbon footprint,"Many firms are citing a lack of finance as holding them back from the ability to quantify their carbon footprint.In May, the government called on small businesses to lead the charge and pledge to reach net zero by 2050 or sooner. This refers to the total amount of greenhouse gases released into the atmosphere as a result of the activities of a business. It can be reduced by improving the sustainability of a business. Measures such as cutting transport and heating costs or using less packaging can drive down the carbon footprint of a company and help it reach 'net zero' - the balance between the amount of greenhouse gas produced and the amount removed from the atmosphere.Rachel Douglas, who runs The Laundry Lodge in Northumberland, says she ""has no clue"" how to work out her company's carbon footprint and ""wouldn't know where to start"". Only one in 10 of over a thousand firms surveyed by the British Chambers of Commerce (BCC) are measuring their carbon footprint and currently 26% of larger firms with more than 50 employees are measuring theirs.""It would be useful to have clear information from the government on how to reduce the carbon we use,"" Ms Douglas tells the BBC.  The findings also show that one in five businesses don't fully understand the term ""net zero"", and almost a third have yet to seek advice or information to help them develop a plan to reach net zero or improve their sustainability.  In order to reduce the environmental impact, Ms Douglas uses over 600 metres of washing line to dry 90% of the items she cleans. During high season, her laundry business cleans between 5,000 and 6,000 separate items per month, costing her Â£260 in electricity and a dedicated member of staff working till 10pm each day to peg items to the lines.   For the remaining 10% of items, she uses three higher energy consuming industrial driers, one of which is more eco-friendly but cost her an extra Â£1,000. Additional cleaning costs due to the pandemic have also meant less money is available to invest in sustainability. ""If there was any tax relief to make it easier to buy expensive eco-friendly products, that would be a huge help,"" she explains.Almost two thirds of businesses surveyed said they don't see net zero targets as a high priority in the wake of the pandemic, although nearly half said their customers are worried about the environment. Though the government does publish emission factors which allow firms to work out their carbon footprint based on their activities, Ms Douglas says she has ""had to take a lot of decisions"" herself to make the business better for the environment because she wasn't clear on government advice. John Barrett, a professor of energy and climate policy at the University of Leeds, says this advice is ""not widely known and not easy to find"" and the alternative is to pay consultancies between Â£20,000-30,000 to calculate the carbon footprint. ""If we want [small businesses] to make a meaningful contribution to reaching our net zero targets, we need to provide a free and professional service allowing them to understand their carbon impacts and showing them how they could reduce their impact.""Historically, the government had a scheme through the Carbon Trust which meant that smaller firms could access advice for free but the scheme was later privatised.Dentist Jason Stokes, who runs the private Cathedral Street Dental practice in Norwich, also says the government carbon calculation spreadsheets aren't ""specific enough"", as they fail to include clinical waste which is particularly damaging for the environment.Clinical waste has to be incinerated at a cost of Â£2,000 per year for his business, he says.""It makes it more challenging and difficult to prioritise carbon reduction when the government's support is so generic,"" he tells the BBC. Mr Stokes has invested in extra insulation and energy saving light bulbs to make the business better for the environment, but the pandemic has meant higher ventilation costs and more imported single use products - counteracting that carbon saving.   Builder Tom Veale, who owns a construction business based in Newent, also says he has ""no idea"" how to calculate his company's carbon footprint.""It would be useful to have help on calculating but without tax relief or any incentives what's the point of working our carbon footprint out?"" The business spends over Â£600,000 annually on construction materials such as concrete and timber and as almost all are imported, Mr Veale said it's ""even harder"" to measure their effect on the environment. And Professor Sam Turner from the group of manufacturing research centres High Value Manufacturing Catapult says that that without ""widely adopted standards"" for carbon accounting across supply chains, there is ""no market incentive to make the necessary investments to reduce carbon footprint"".Tina Bowden, owner of the Lavender Bake House in Stroud says she would also welcome government advice on how to improve. ""I don't have the staff to spare to do the paperwork for carbon calculation and there's no financial support to make it viable for us,"" she explains.. The business spends Â£25000 on renewable energy per month and that rather than making a 20% saving on imported produce from wholesalers, she tries to buy local products as much as possible.""Any recyclable packaging is twice the price so it would help to have some sort of government subsidy so we don't soak the cost up ourselves,"" she says.A spokesperson from the Department for Business, Energy & Industrial Strategy told the BBC: ""We know that some businesses may find this daunting, but our 'Together for Our Planet' campaign is specifically targeted at providing SMEs with the practical tools, resources and advice they need to understand their emissions and develop a plan to tackle them.""But Mike Cherry, the national chairman of the Federation of Small Businesses (FSB), is concerned that small business owners are strapped for time and money as their focus is squarely on recovery.""The starting point here should really be concrete measures to empower small firms - which want to do the right thing - to make the transport, energy and logistical changes that will reduce their emissions,"" he added.  ",2021-08-13,business,BBC
Elon Musk: Zero pay but tens of billions in stock options in 2020,"The filing is accurate — Musk received no base pay during the year. That's in keeping with past practice at the company, although in prior filings, Tesla reported what Musk would have earned had he received California's minimum wage. For 2019 that came to $23,760.""However, he has never accepted his salary,"" said the company in it's filing late Friday.  ""Commencing in May 2019 at Mr. Musk's request, we eliminated altogether the earning and accrual of this base salary.""Tesla (TSLA) did report the value of Musk's massive options package, but that was back in 2018, when the deal that grants him the stock options was first approved by shareholders. That valuation, which was done using widely accepted methods, proved to be very conservative, as it put the value of the options at only $2.3 billion.Under the compensation arrangement, Musk is eligible for options to buy up to 101 million split-adjusted shares of stock at an exercise price of $70.01 each. Those are being distributed in 12 equal tranches of 8.4 million options, based on the company hitting both financial milestones and achieving certain stock valuation targets. Those stock targets  were all easily hit during the course of 2020 as Tesla shares soared 743%, making it the best performing US stock and by far the most valuable automaker on the planet. The financial milestones have been somewhat harder to achieve, but four of Musk's stock tranches vested during the course of 2020, giving him the right to buy 33.8 million shares at an exercise price of $2.4 billion.  As of Friday's close, those stocks were worth $21.9 billionSo far in 2021 the company has hit two more financial milestones, qualifying Musk for an additional 16.9 million stock options. Those options would be worth $10.9 billion at today's prices. The company reported in an earlier filing which detailed its record second quarter profit that it is now ""probable"" it will hit another three milestones in the near term, which means Musk's options windfall for 2021 could meet or even top the 2020 awards. As is the case for most top executives who earn stock options, Musk has not actually exercised any of them. Typically options are only exercised when they're due to expire, such as when an executive is leaving the company and would stand to lose them.Sometimes executives sell shares to diversify their holdings or pay taxes, but Musk has rarely sold shares during his time with the company. As of June 30, he owned 170.5 million shares outright, and had options to purchase another 73.5 million shares, giving him control over 23% of the company's stock. Musk is one of the world's richest people, thanks to both his Tesla shares and majority stake in his other company — privately-held SpaceX — of which he is also CEO. Forbes' real time billionaire tracker puts Musk's net worth at $186.7 billion, just behind the $190.7 billion net worth of Amazon (AMZN) founder Jeff Bezos. Forbes ranks Bernard Arnault, the CEO of French luxury goods giant LVMH, and his family, at the top of its richest person list, with a net worth $201.6 billion.Musk's Tesla stake is worth $171.3 billion, counting both stock and options after taking into account their exercise price.But his practice of not taking cash salaries has prompted him to borrow substantially as well. The Tesla filing Friday said 88 million of Musk's Tesla shares have been pledged as collateral ""to secure certain personal indebtedness."" Although the total amount of Musk's borrowing is not known, those 88 million shares are today worth $63 billion. The number of shares pledged as collateral was reduced by 4 million shares since the prior company disclosure in April.",2021-08-14,business,CNN
Used car price hikes may soon be over,"Prices shot up like a rocket earlier this year, soaring 30% between March and June according to the consumer price index, the federal government's main inflation barometer. That was by far the steepest three-month increase in those prices, according to government data that goes back nearly 70 years.Before the recent run-up in used car prices, which started last fall, the biggest 3-month rise in prices was only a 12% jump in 1974. But prices edged up only 0.2% in July, and gauges from the industry have raised hopes that the prices are at least leveling off if not about to start a modest decline. Another potentially positive sign for car buyers: Wholesale prices for used cars — what dealers pay at auto auctions — are already moving lower.""Wholesale prices look like they peaked eight weeks ago, and have been moving down since then,"" said David Paris, senior manager of market insight for JD Power. Typically retail prices follow wholesale prices with that kind of time lag, he said. ""The vehicles being sold at dealerships today were acquired on average five to six weeks ago.""But that might not immediately lower the prices that customers pay. In this wild car market, dealers have depended less on wholesale purchases to fill their used car lots, buying an increasing number of cars directly from owners. Some dealers are actually advertising to buy rather than sell cars, and robocalls offering to buy cars have started to annoy people on their cell phones.Also, demand for used cars remains strong. That could keep prices from slipping dramatically, even if wholesale prices start coming down.""In a situation where there is still lot of demand, I think used retail prices have the potential to hold up better than wholesale,"" said Paris.Cooling offUsed car prices may be reaching their peak, because they can soar only so high before they become unreasonable for customers.The gap between new and used car prices narrowed during the recent run-up in used car prices, so the used car prices are likely reaching near their natural ceiling, said Jessica Caldwell, executive director of insights with Edmunds. At some point people who are car shopping will decide to buy new rather than used, even if they have to wait for the new car they want, she said. ""It comes to the point where it just doesn't make sense to buy used,"" she said. ""We don't expect the prices to correct and go back to 2019 levels, but we expect them to become more normal and cool off in the second half of the year.""Used car buying typically slows in August, as tax refund checks (and stimulus checks this year) have been spent. And some folks who might have been shopping for a car in anticipation of returning to the office in September may have delayed a purchase as they wait to see when they they will in fact need to return. Why prices soaredThe price increases earlier this year were driven by a number of factors. No. 1 is that lesson from the first day of Econ 101: supply and demand. Limited inventories of products coupled with strong demand equals upward price pressure. And both those things have occurred since last fall in the used car market.First, the supply constraints: When travel ground to a near halt in the early months of the pandemic, car rental companies, typically a major source of the supply of used cars, dumped much of their fleets in order to raise cash to survive. Despite the rebound in demand for rental cars, the shortage of computer chips needed to build new cars has restricted the supply of new vehicles they could buy, so they are holding onto the cars now in their fleets. That has choked supplies. Through the first seven months of this year, the number of used cars sold at auction was 26% lower than the same period of 2019, ahead of the recession.The limited supplies of new cars has driven up those prices as well, and pushed some car buyers to buy used rather than new, increasing demand. And various government stimulus programs during the pandemic has also put money in potential car buyers' pockets, helping to create greater demand for both new and used cars, as has low interest rates keeping car payments low.But some of these factors are waning — new car production, while still limited, is picking up and stimulus checks have mostly already been issued. So some of the upward pressure on pricing may be waning.That doesn't mean it'll be easy to find a cheap used car. In fact, it might be tougher even if the average increase is leveling out.""There aren't a lot of cheap used vehicles on lots any more. Those cars -- the 10-year old used car in decent shape - were snapped up in the spring,"" said Caldwell.  ""So the available vehicles are relatively new, and fairly expensive. So it's going to remain hard to buy inexpensive used cars.""",2021-08-13,business,CNN
Consumer sentiment suddenly crashes below early-pandemic levels,"The University of Michigan said that its influential consumer sentiment index plunged 13.5% from July to August and hit a level of 70.2. That's the most bearish reading for this measure since December 2011.The drop was so precipitous since last month that the University of Michigan has recorded only six bigger monthly drops in the index's nearly 50-year history, including a more than 19% plunge in April 2020 and 18% drop in October 2008 during the height of the Great Recession and Global Financial Crisis.""There is little doubt that the pandemic's resurgence due to the Delta variant has been met with a mixture of reason and emotion,"" said Richard Curtin, the surveys chief economist.""Consumers have correctly reasoned that the economy's performance will be diminished over the next several months, but the extraordinary surge in negative economic assessments also reflects an emotional response, mainly from dashed hopes that the pandemic would soon end,"" he added. Stocks were flat Friday, despite the huge slide in sentiment, and remain near all-time highs thanks to strong earnings. There is a bit of a disconnect between the current economic data and Wall Street outlook, which are far rosier, and the apparently intense fear of the immediate future on the part of consumers. The government reported last Friday that nearly a million jobs were added in July, the biggest monthly gain in nearly a year. And the unemployment rate fell to a pandemic-era low of 5.4%.But the yield on the 10-Year US bond slid from about 1.37% to 1.3% Friday as nervous fixed income investors sought the safety of stable government debt. (Bond rates fall when investors are buying more bonds.)Consumers reacting to gloomy headlines even as stocks popOne market strategist called the August consumer sentiment numbers a ""knee jerk reaction"" to negative headlines about the Delta variant. But he understood why consumers are so gloomy.""There is a sense among consumers that the rug has been pulled out from under them,"" said Thomas Simons, money market economist with Jefferies, in a report. ""The promise of vaccines and a return to something at least resembling pre-COVID 'normal' has shifted towards concerns that fear of being sick, masks, social distancing, virtual/distance learning, work from home, an endless stream of booster shots and seeing relatives through glass will instead be the norm going forward,"" he said, adding that ""consumers are just plain sad.""Still, consumer sentiment can be remarkably fickle. Emotions can shift on a dime. ""What you feel like is different than what you actually do,"" said Randy Fredrick, managing director of trading and derivatives at Charles Schwab, noting that consumer confidence is notorious for having many ""pendulum swings.""The Conference Board reported last month that global consumer confidence hit a new all-time high during the second quarter.And consumer confidence is not exactly the most reliable future indicator of what's next for the economy. Sentiment tends to follow news headlines and the state of the stock market.Consumers have notoriously been way too bullish just before economic or market meltdowns. That was the case in January 2000. Consumer confidence hit a then record high just as tech stocks were about to implode. Sentiment was also at a high level in 2007 before the housing market crashed.So it stands to reason that consumers may also be worrying too much that the economic sky is falling. ",2021-08-13,economy,CNN
Get used to surging food prices: Extreme weather is here to stay,"Arabica coffee futures have almost doubled over the past year to seven-year highs as Brazil grapples with frost conditions that have wiped out crops. Retail coffee prices will likely follow suit. Sugar prices are also on the rise, driven up by the frost in Brazil as well as dry weather in the Dakotas and Red River Valley. Wheat, one of the most common food sources for the average diet, has surged to the highest level in nearly eight years amid soaring temperatures and droughts. The food price spikes demonstrate how extreme weather, much of it caused by the climate crisis, is having a real-world impact on Americans. And climate scientists warn the fallout will only intensify from here.""Climate change is coming right into our dining room tables,"" Cynthia Rosenzweig, adjunct senior research scientist at the Columbia University Earth Institute, told CNN Business.'Bid to the moon'World food prices have soared by 31% over the past year, according to the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations. Supply shortages caused by extreme weather is one of several factors behind this food inflation. ""There's no doubt that changes in weather patterns are impacting our food supply,"" said Jennifer Bartashus, a senior analyst at Bloomberg Intelligence who covers retail staples and packaged food. Robert Yawger, a 35-year veteran of the commodities industry, is no stranger to price booms in agriculture. But unlike prior booms, this one isn't being driven by typical factors like emerging market demand or a weak US dollar.""In the past, it wasn't that there was a climate catastrophe rallying everything at once,"" said Yawger, executive director of energy futures at Mizuho Securities. ""I've never seen anything like this -- where everything is bid to the moon at the same time.""Severe weather events have contributed to natural catastrophe losses of $40 billion during the first half of 2021 alone, according to Swiss Re, the world's largest reinsurance company. That's the second-highest amount on record.Of course, not all extreme weather is caused by the climate crisis. For example, some shifting weather patterns could be caused by La Nina, according to Rosenzweig, the Columbia professor who is also senior research scientist at the NASA Goddard Institute for Space Studies.Worker shortages, rising transportation costsAnd the rise in food prices can be driven by multiple factors -- some of which have nothing to do with climate change. For instance, some food inflation is being caused by a shortage of workers, including in the agricultural sector amid the pandemic and Trump administration's crackdown on immigration. Transportation costs are also high because of elevated oil prices and a shortage of truck drivers. That's not to mention elevated packaging costs.Consumer prices soared by 5.4% during the 12 months that ended in July, according to government statistics released Wednesday. That matches the fastest annual jump in prices since 2008. Producer prices rose even faster in July, setting a record for the second month in a row. ""I've been in the industry for 38 years and this is the highest we've ever seen inflation go up in our company,"" said Orlando Olave, senior director of operations at New York supermarket Morton Williams. ""It's incredible how many things are going up now.""93% of wheat in poor condition in Washington StateWheat prices are going up in part due to ""concerns over dry weather and crop conditions in North America,"" according to the UN food agency. Specifically, droughts in Canada and the Northwestern part of the United States have wiped out wheat crops.The most recent crop report published by the USDA found that just 11% of spring wheat across six US states is in good to excellent condition. That's down from 69% a year ago.In Washington State, a staggering 93% of the spring wheat is in poor or very poor condition because of droughts, according to the Drought Monitor. ""It's been cooked. Day in and day out they're getting temperatures they've never seen before,"" Yawger said.'Complete crop failure'More than 95% of the Western part of the United States is currently in some level of drought.""Droughts have caused some farmers to stop growing some crops altogether -- complete crop failure,"" said Rosenzweig.Climate change is increasing the frequency and severity of droughts, according to the UN Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change. A report issued by the group this week found that droughts that may have only happened once a decade, now happen 70% more often around the world. Chris Field, a professor who studies climate change at Stanford University, worries about how droughts and water constraints in California and the West will impact America's supply of nuts, fruits and vegetables. ""So far, we have not seen widespread food price increases for American consumers,"" Field wrote in an email. ""But, as extremes become more common, the risk becomes more and more real.""Coffee and sugar prices on the riseBut it's not just warm conditions impacting food supply.The deep freeze in Texas earlier this year caused at least $600 million in agricultural losses across the Lonestar State, according to research from Texas A&M University. That included the loss of livestock, citrus and vegetable crops. Severe frost has damaged coffee crops in Brazil, raising fears of a severe decline in production.Unfortunately, these climate-driven crop problems are only going to add to the sticker shock gripping America.""If demand remains the same, or even grows as restaurants open, but supply is constrained, that will naturally translate to higher prices that are paid ultimately by the consumer,"" said Bartashus, the Bloomberg Intelligence analyst. Even before the unusually cold temperatures in Brazil, US retail coffee prices were on the rise in part because of droughts in Brazil. The average price of ground coffee hit $4.75 per pound in April, the highest level in nearly six years, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics.Although coffee prices have since retreated, the frost in Brazil threatens to reverse that. The impact to consumers may not be immediate because of the way major companies buy coffee beans (and other commodities). Starbucks (SBUX) said last month that customers won't be forced to spend more on coffee because the company buys coffee beans ahead of time and locks in prices. There's little doubt, at least in Yawger's mind, that climate change is to blame for the simultaneous impact to various crops.""The chance all of these pieces would move in an anti-harvest way would be one in a million,"" he said. ""The evidence is overwhelming that it is a change in weather.""",2021-08-13,business,CNN
Drive-in theaters fueled Hollywood's box office last year. They could be here to stay,"Last year, from late-March through mid-August, drive-ins generated 85% of North American box office revenue (and some weeks contributed north of 95%), according to Comscore data provided to CNN Business. During that same period in 2019, drive-ins accounted for just 2.9% of box office revenue.And although films and people have started to return to brick-and-mortar cinemas (albeit at far lower levels than before), drive-ins are showing that they have staying power. Through the first 30 weeks of 2021, they're still gobbling up a greater share of box office revenue than they did pre-pandemic: averaging 6.2% of weekend box office dollars this year versus nearly 1.9% for the first 30 weeks of 2019, Comscore data show.""Naturally, the attributes of the multiplex did not work well within the confines of the pandemic, but consumers hungry to get out of the house found the drive-in to be the perfect solution to a question that no one had even thought to ask just a year before,"" said Paul Dergarabedian, senior media analyst for Comscore, which tracks global box office data. ""The old-fashioned and often marginalized drive-in theater must now be recognized as one of the saviors of the [cinema] industry,"" he said.There are indications that the added exposure jumpstarted an outdoor cinema rally: Long-forsaken drive-ins are being dusted off and spruced up; pop-ups are proliferating in cities; the concept is gaining momentum overseas; and new takes on the classic are launching. In the limelightIn 1958, drive-ins topped out at more than 4,000 locations nationwide, according to Kerry Segrave's chronicle of the industry, ""Drive-in Theaters: A History from Their Inception in 1933.""Those ranks were culled following the emergence of television and, later, the arrival of cable, VHS, the cinema multiplex, digital innovation and rising land values.Now, fewer than 350 fixed-screen drive-in locations are sprinkled across America, mostly in rural communities where land is in greater abundance and light pollution is minimal.Prior to last year, those highly seasonal outdoor outfits contributed a mere sliver of the movie exhibition business.In 2019, during peak summer months, drive-ins accounted for fewer than 6% of all theaters in North America and about 4% of overall box office returns, Comscore data show.The pandemic flipped the script. For June through August 2020, about 21% of North American movie theaters in operation were drive-ins, and those fixed-screen outdoor cinemas had 70% of the box office revenue.Indoor spaces and public gatherings became ill-suited for the preservation of health and safety against the deadly coronavirus. However, the open-air drive-ins with built-in physical distancing from vehicles had more favorable attributes.""The world has become attuned to drive-ins in a way it hasn't in decades,"" said Ross Melnick, an associate professor in the University of California -- Santa Barbara's Department of Film and Media Studies.Bob Lallky, 24, of Scottsdale, Arizona, saw his first-ever drive-in movie last year when he watched ""The Greatest Showman"" at a shopping center pop-up screening.  Being able to maintain physical distance from others while enjoying a favorite movie in the comfort of a car was an experience Lallky would like to repeat. ""I hope that they would put a permanent drive-in option close to me,"" he said. ""It's something different.""New arrivalsEntering 2020, the drive-in industry had reached a point of equilibrium, said Nick Hensgen, owner of driveinmovie.com, which tracks and maps drive-ins of the present and past. The drive-ins that remained were popular, well-maintained and successfully adapted to the digital transition, he said. He added that one or two drive-ins were expected to open in 2020, which would make for a very good year in a business that's seen its numbers shrink to about 305 in 2019 from 499 in 1999, according to the United Drive-In Theatre Owners Association. Ten ultimately did open last year, at least nine more have opened so far this year, and several more are in the works, he said.In Loudon County, Tennessee, a new arrival features a modern twist that its operator hopes could serve as the future of the concept.The centerpiece of the LoCo Drive-In is a 35-by-63-foot Samsung video board, a jumbotron with the capabilities of allowing for both daytime and nighttime showings of movies, live sports and other events.""It's an idea I've had in my head for 25 years,"" Gordon Whitener, owner of Loudon Entertainment LLC, said in an interview with CNN Business. ""While [the Covid-19 pandemic] didn't drive it, it certainly motivated me to get on with it.""His plan is to erect more of the video board drive-ins across the country -- perhaps another 10 to 15 in the next five to 10 years.In Oklahoma's Green Country, efforts are in the works to resurrect the Tee Pee Drive-In, a long-abandoned drive-in located along an Ozark Trail section of US Route 66.The Kante Group, a business connected to SeneGence International CEO Joni Rogers-Kante, purchased the property earlier this year, the Sapulpa Times reported.The plans are to create an outdoor entertainment venue, featuring a drive-in theater, concert stage, food trucks, and short-term rentals, according to Sapulpa Times' coverage of city planning commission proceedings.The Kante Group is targeting a spring 2022 opening, general manager Roger Hendrick told CNN Business.Existential threatsIt's too early to know what consumer behaviors may stick when the pandemic wanes or ends, said Marshal Cohen, chief retail industry advisor for consumer research firm NPD.""Drive-ins will see a slight resurgence, as small opportunities will arise for people to open them and offer them as movie options again, but not on a huge scale,"" he said via email, adding that brick-and-mortar theaters will adapt as well.  ""But on the other side of the equation is the investment so many have made in subscriptions to premium channels offering up first-run movies. If the industry continues to run down that path, theaters will have a hard time competing.""Tamara Charm, a McKinsey & Company senior expert and co-author of the B2C Sentiment Surveys, said 75% of consumers surveyed by her organization said they expect their pandemic-level online streaming spending to continue even past the pandemic.The activity in 2020 has been a tough act to follow for many drive-ins, said filmmaker April Wright, who directed the documentary, ""Going Attractions: The Definitive Story of the American Drive-in Movie.""Now, in the second summer of pandemic, fixed-screen drive-in operators are facing a host of challenges, notably a lack of films from studios; competition from other attractions and digital streaming; gummed up supply chains; hiring challenges; and unruly customers, she said. ""I think there was certainly a level of difficulty to run a drive-in and keep a drive-in going in this day and age,"" she said. ""When you start adding all these complications and levels of difficulties, [drive-in operators] are worried.""Some operators are closing up shop and others are cashing out while the industry's at a high, Wright said, adding she's seen a stark increase in the number of drive-ins landing on the sales block. Wright said she's hopeful that the added attention on drive-ins will help people value unique and communal aspects of society.""As we lose places like [drive-ins], I do think it's having an impact on us,"" she said. ""I think it does make us better as a culture and as humans when we have places to gather.""Staying powerSome drive-ins have come back from the dead, and others like The Mahoning Drive-In Theater in Leighton, Pennsylvania, successfully fended off threats that would have surely doomed the fan-favorite haunt. In what were a tense couple of weeks, pleas from the Mahoning's operators and public outcry put the kibosh on plans that would have replaced the drive-in with a solar farm. Now, the Mahoning's operators are in talks with the property owner to purchase the land, Mark Nelson, the general manager, told CNN Business. Built in 1948 and opened the following year, the Mahoning ""hasn't changed a tremendous lot"" since. The 1949-era projector runs 35 mm films reel to reel via Simplex E7 projectors onto a gargantuan 110-foot screen. Inside the vintage cinderblock snack bar, there's a chow line for the food and vinyl records, VHS, DVDs and other memorabilia for sale. One notable modernization: The audio is broadcast via FM transmitter as opposed to the boxy speakers that would dangle inside the car window. ""Last year, the pandemic hurt a lot of drive-ins,"" Nelson said. ""They were forced to go retro, diversify with live events and play movies they wouldn't normally play.""For the Mahoning, however, retro hits right in its wheelhouse. A night at the Mahoning, known for showing retro classics, schlock horror flicks and creature features, is a full spectacle: The trailers and intermission reels are themed to the movies playing that night; customers often dress up in character; and production designer J.T. Mills creates intricate artistic sets to accompany the films. The septuagenarian saw some of its biggest attendances ever during the pandemic, Nelson said.Other pandemic trends, including telecommuting that allowed city dwellers to emigrate from urban environments to more rural locales proved beneficial as well for some drive-ins. When Idaho saw its ongoing population growth heightened during the pandemic, the effect was noticeable at places like the the Parma Motor-Vu, located about 45 miles northwest of Boise proper.""Every night, there are multiple cars we've never seen here before,"" said Susan Haaheim, whose grandfather opened the Parma Motor-Vu in 1953. Although drive-ins like the Parma Motor-Vu were fortunate enough to keep the projectors running during the pandemic, 2020 wasn't smooth sailing by any means. ""What really saved us in 2020 was we started getting people asking about private events,"" she said. That included 13 graduations, a slew of company parties and gatherings like the Idaho Wine Commission's ""UnWined at the Drive-In,"" an event that brought Boise resident Molly Lenty, 42, back to her first drive-in movie in years. ""Being away from the city lights, you're truly out under the stars,"" Lenty said. ",2021-08-13,business,CNN
"An anonymous hacker stole $600 million in cryptocurrency, then gave it back","The bizarre outcome caps off an unusual cryptocurrency heist that has been called the biggest in industry history. In a message posted to Twitter on Thursday, Poly Network said the hacker — whom it is calling ""Mr. White Hat,"" a term that refers to an ethical hacker who raises awareness of security flaws — has returned all of the stolen funds, save for a small percentage that had been frozen by the cryptocurrency issuer Tether following the hack.The money has been deposited to an account that requires both the company and the hacker to manage jointly.""To ensure the safe recovery of user assets, we hope to maintain communication with Mr. White Hat and convey accurate information to the public,"" Poly Network said. Reuters reported Friday that the company thanked the hacker and asked for his continued contributions to industry security.In messages accompanying the returned funds published by the blockchain forensics firm Chainalysis, the hacker claimed it was ""always the plan"" to give the money back. ""I am _not_ interested in money!"" the hacker said, and added: ""I would say figuring out the blind spot in the architecture of Poly Network would be one of the best moments in my life.""According to Chainalysis and transaction notes shared by Tom Robinson, co-founder of the forensics firm Elliptic, Poly Network had offered a $500,000 bounty to the hacker. Although it appears the hacker acknowledged receiving a bounty offer, it was never accepted, according to the notes. ""Instead, I will send all of their money back,"" the hacker said.It would have been extremely difficult for the hacker to spend the stolen funds, forensic experts say. The fact that blockchain transactions are publicly recorded makes it challenging to launder money anonymously. ""The best they could hope for would be to evade capture as the funds sit frozen in a blacklisted private wallet,"" Chainalysis wrote in its blog post.",2021-08-13,tech,CNN
"Boeing's troubled Starliner spacecraft must return to factory, causing more delays","The Starliner is a gumdrop-shaped capsule meant to house astronauts and ferry them through space after launching atop a rocket. The vehicle is years behind its planned entry to service, and myriad issues and delays during the development process have been a black eye for Boeing. Meanwhile, its rival, SpaceX, has already completed development and testing of its own crewed spacecraft.Boeing was slated to repeat an uncrewed test flight of Starliner earlier this month after several major software issues plagued its first attempt in December 2019, leaving the spacecraft unable to dock with the ISS and forced to make an early return to Earth.After more than a year of working to solve those issues, a new slate of problems was discovered when the spacecraft was rolled out to its launch pad earlier this month and began going through pre-flight ground checks. The issues involved 13 valves in the spacecraft's propulsion system, which were not opening on command as they must before liftoff, according to the company. After attempting to fix the issue on site at NASA's launch facilities in Florida, nine of the 13 valves began working again.But Boeing disclosed Friday that it still hasn't identified the root cause of the issue, though the company said it was likely related to moisture — possibly from the humid Florida air — leaking into the propulsion valves. The company also disclosed additional problems with abnormal temperature readings. The company will need to return the Starliner spacecraft to a Boeing factory, signaling a potentially expensive months-long delay before it can proceed with the crucial test. ""We've exhausted every possible option,"" John Vollmer, the manager of Boeing's Starliner program, told reporters Friday. He acknowledged that Starliner will not launch this test flight in August. It may not even happen in 2021, though, Vollmer said, it's ""too much to speculate"" at this point. The orbital flight test, as the uncrewed mission is called, is the final step in a years-long testing process that Boeing needs to complete before it can launch its first mission with astronauts on board. This mission's success is critical for Boeing, which has been working since the early 2010s to develop a spacecraft capable of taking astronauts to and from the International Space Station. Until SpaceX's Demo-2 flight in May of 2020, NASA had been forced to rely on Russia for human spaceflights after the retirement of NASA's Space Shuttle program.Boeing and SpaceX each received contracts to provide transportation to the ISS for NASA astronauts, a unique arrangement in which the private companies, rather than NASA, handle development and testing, and NASA essentially buys their services. SpaceX's development program was also several years behind schedule, but the company has leapt ahead of Boeing. After completing its first crewed flight last year, the SpaceX Crew Dragon capsule has now entered full commercial service. There are even plans to send four tourists on an orbital joyride aboard the vehicle later this year.Starliner's issues, on the other hand, have been so pervasive that it even set off speculation that NASA may cut ties with the company for this program, though the space agency has staunchly denied those rumors and continued to do so despite revelations of even more issues. ""It's a disappointing day,"" said Kathy Lueders, NASA's head of human spaceflight, during a press call Friday afternoon. ""We are committed to continue working with Boeing on bringing on their crew transportation...and we will go fly when we're ready.""",2021-08-13,business,CNN
Big Oil blasts Biden for turning to OPEC for more crude,"The American Petroleum Institute, the powerful lobby group that represents the US oil and gas industry, is arguing President Joe Biden should be working to boost oil production at home before looking overseas.""You'd think the first place you would go would be American producers, rather than OPEC, which literally held this country hostage for decades because they were our top supplier,"" API President Mike Sommers told CNN Business. In response, a White House official stressed the importance of ""reliable and stable energy markets at this critical moment"" in the global recovery from the pandemic.""President Biden has made clear that he wants Americans to have access to affordable energy, including at the pump,"" the US official told CNN Business.Goldman Sachs: Biden's OPEC+ outreach unlikely to workThe national average price of gasoline stands near a seven-year high at $3.18 a gallon, up from $2.18 year ago, according to AAA. Higher energy prices are a reflection of supply failing to catch up with surging demand as people fly and drive more now that many have been vaccinated.OPEC and its allies like Russia, known collectively as OPEC+, continue to hold back supply they took offline at the onset of the pandemic. They've only gradually added barrels. The Biden administration on Wednesday called on OPEC+ to do more to combat elevated energy prices. National security adviser Jake Sullivan said in a statement that OPEC+ ""must do more to support the recovery."" It's worth noting that Biden is only the latest US president to ask for help from OPEC — a step that even former President Trump took despite his championing of American energy dominance. (Trump would later take the unusual step of urging OPEC to pump less oil to save domestic oil producers from an historic crash in prices brought on by the pandemic and a price war within OPEC+).In a note to clients on Thursday, Goldman Sachs strategist said the White House's outreach to OPEC+ is ""unlikely"" to persuade be effective in the short term. The Wall Street firm cited concerns about weakening demand caused by the Delta variant. Fossil fuels crackdownThe API, which has a vested interest in domestic energy production, said unleashing US oil producers would be a better solution. ""We have this strategic advantage of an energy revolution — that started under President Obama. We should be doing everything we can to encourage production in the United States,"" said Sommers, whose group represents ExxonMobil (XOM), Chevron (CVX) and other major US-based oil companies.And Sommers criticized the Biden administration for its regulatory crackdown on the fossil fuels industry.""The irony sure is thick,"" Sommers said. ""We're talking about an administration that really for the first eight months in office did nothing but try to restrict American development of oil and gas.""On his first day in office, Biden immediately moved to rejoin the Paris Agreement on climate change, placed a temporary moratorium on oil and gas leasing in the Arctic and revoked the permit for the Keystone XL pipeline, a controversial project that wasn't scheduled to begin transporting Canadian oil until 2023 at the earliest. The Biden administration also paused oil and gas leasing on federal lands and waters — a step that was temporarily blocked by a federal court in June.""I'm not saying what Biden has done in the first eight months is the only reason we are seeing high prices today,"" Sommers said. ""There's no question there are significant market forces at play.""Sommers conceded that the leasing pause, which the API strongly opposed, is not impacting today's prices. Instead, he said, that move — along with the cancellation of the Keystone XL added regulatory uncertainty that will discourage future investment in domestic energy.Why US oil producers aren't coming to the rescueBut regulation is not the only reason US oil production has been somewhat slow to rebound from the pandemic.After burning through insane amounts of money last decade, oil companies are under enormous pressure from Wall Street to be more retrained and share profits with shareholders. They're in no rush to come to the rescue.""This has been an underperforming asset class,"" Sommers said. ""There is fiscal discipline occurring in the oil patch today. The focus is on returning money to investors who lost a lot of money in the past decade, particularly in 2020.""Of course, the Biden administration's tougher approach on the oil-and-gas industry is being driven by a sense of urgency around the climate crisis — especially after four years of gutting environmental regulations during the Trump era.The International Energy Agency warned in May that the world needs to stop drilling for oil and natural gas right now to prevent a climate catastrophe. The White House official stressed that gas prices are lower today than they were for most of the first half of the decade and are in line with 2018 — the middle of the Trump administration. ""But we have to stay vigilant,"" the official said.",2021-08-13,business,CNN
China growth forecasts slashed as Delta variant spreads across the country,"The country's latest struggles began as the Delta variant of Covid-19 swept through China in late July, quickly spreading to more than half of its 34 provinces and regions and leading to more than a thousand confirmed cases.While the numbers of cases remain small by comparison with recent surges in infections in the United States and Europe, China has aggressively revived its ""zero-Covid"" strategy. It has isolated some cities, closed down entertainment venues, canceled flights and rolled out mass testing as it tries to contain the spread — measures not seen at this scale since the beginning of the pandemic last year. Some trade at a major container port near Shanghai was even suspended this week after a worker tested positive for the virus.Those drastic moves have already prompted some economists to slash their growth projections for the world's second largest economy.Goldman Sachs analysts forecast China's GDP to grow by just 2.3% in the third quarter from the previous quarter — dramatically lower than the 5.8% increase they originally expected. ""With the virus spreading to many of China's provinces and local governments reacting swiftly to control the spread of the highly contagious Delta variant, we have begun to see softening in national aggregate data,"" the analysts said in a research report earlier this week, adding that they expect services like travel, catering and entertainment to be affected. Still, despite the anticipated slump in the third quarter, the Goldman analysts still expect the recovery largely to remain intact this year. For all of 2021, they expect China's economy to grow 8.3%, slightly lower than a previous estimate of 8.6%.Other economists, though, have also warned of a hit to growth. China has implemented ""strict individual mobility restrictions"" to better enforce its ""zero tolerance"" policy, analysts at JP Morgan wrote in a research note earlier this week. They forecast economic growth to halve to 2% in the current quarter, compared with a previous estimate of 4.3%. They also cut their 2021 GDP growth forecast to 8.9% from 9.1%.""We expect the situation can be brought under control in the next several weeks, but the epidemic control procedure will dent consumption and services tentatively,"" they added.Morgan Stanley analysts, meanwhile, cut their China GDP growth forecast to 8.2% for 2021 last week, also saying that the outbreak would affect consumption growth and dent service sector hiring.Further disruption is possibleBeijing is expected on Monday to release more information about the economic recovery — including consumption, industrial production and investment — which should offer more clues about China's economic recovery.Those figures aren't likely to be comprehensive, since they only cover July data and will omit whatever impact the virus has had through the first couple of weeks of August.But there are other recent signs that the resurgence of the virus, along with the measures China is taking to contain it, could cause disruption.On Wednesday, authorities shut down Meishan terminal in Ningbo-Zhoushan port — the world's third largest container port — after a dock worker tested positive for Covid, according to the local government. The port handles goods that would fill around 78,000 20-foot containers every day.  The Meishan terminal accounts for around a fifth of the port's volume.The problems there echo a lockdown that Chinese authorities imposed in May on Yantian, a critical port in southern China that can handle 36,000 20-foot containers every day. Even after that port reopened in June, it operated below capacity for a while, creating a shipping backlog that will take weeks to clear.""This was one of the immediate risks that we'd seen emerging in China as the pandemic situation has deteriorated,"" said Nick Marro, lead analyst for global trade at the Economist Intelligence Unit, in a research note on Thursday.""The global trade and logistics environment is already in a pretty fragile state, particularly given all of the challenges we've seen over the spring and early summer,"" he added. ""Interruptions to trade not only pose problems for shipping and consumers, but also manufacturers who rely on critical imported components.""Other challengesDelta variant-fueled lockdowns aren't China's only problem right now.The country is also battling with surging inflation and growing debt risks.The producer price index — which measures the cost of goods sold to businesses — increased 9% in July from a year earlier, matching the highest level in nearly 13 years seen in May. High producer inflation is troubling news for China's businesses and the country's economic recovery. It means that the rising costs of raw materials are now more aggressively cutting into company profits, and could force them to control costs by slowing down production or even shedding workers. Debt risks are another concern. China's corporate bond defaults climbed to 62.59 billion yuan ($9.7 billion) in the first half of the 2021, the highest level for the same period on record, according to Fitch Ratings. A sweeping regulatory crackdown on private businesses that Beijing wants to keep in check has also upset investors and shaken market confidence.Those recent regulatory measures on sectors ranging from tech and finance to education have wiped out more than $1 trillion in market value from some of China's most valuable companies, according to Goldman Sachs.And analysts at JP Morgan said the clampdown, particularly in tech and education, ""will not only lead to disruption in tutoring business, but also lead to rising unemployment and drag on the recovery in income growth."" They added that the country's ban on for-profit tutoring alone could affect millions of jobs.Data showed that China's borrowing drastically slowed last month, indicating that businesses and individuals may be reluctant to invest or spend, which could lead to reduced employment, less consumption, and slower growth.Chinese banks only extended 1.08 trillion yuan ($167 billion) in new yuan loans last month, down nearly 50% from June, according to data released by the People's Bank of China last Wednesday. A broader measure for financing, including loans offered by nonbank institutions, totaled 1.06 trillion yuan ($164 billion) in July, also down sharply from 3.67 trillion yuan in June. The slowdown likely reflected ""weak credit demand amid tightened regulations"" on property, consumer credit and the ability of local governments to borrow, according to Goldman Sachs analysts.",2021-08-13,economy,CNN
Airbnb warns that the Delta variant could disrupt travel,"The company benefited from more people taking vacations in the spring and summer, but Airbnb says the next few months could be extremely bumpy. Shares of Airbnb fell nearly 2% in late morning trading Friday on the company's warning. ""In the near term,"" Airbnb said in its earnings letter to shareholders, Covid and new variants including Delta ""will continue to affect overall travel behavior, including how often and when guests book and cancel."" As a result, Airbnb's future bookings ""will continue to be more volatile and non-linear.""Airbnb did try to reassure investors that it believes the impact will be temporary, however. And the company also said in its shareholder letter that it expects third-quarter revenue to be its strongest on record.Analysts are currently forecasting that Airbnb will report revenue of nearly $1.9 billion in the third quarter, up from sales of $1.3 billion in the second quarter.Industry-wide challengesMany other travel and leisure companies are facing similar challenges. Shares of Disney (DIS), which also reported strong earnings Thursday, hotel chains Marriott (MAR) and Hyatt (H), and top airline Delta (DAL) have also lagged the broader market this year.    As for Airbnb, Wall Street had a mixed reaction to the financial results and guidance released late Thursday.Wells Fargo analyst Brian Fitzgerald raised his price target on the stock to $210, more than 40% above Airbnb's current price. Fitzgerald praised the company for adding inventory in high-demand markets, noting that as more companies delay plans for workers to return to offices, Airbnb should benefit from more people looking to book long-term stays, particularly in nonurban markets.""We continue to expect that the post-covid travel landscape will be one characterized by greater work flexibility and longer stays,"" he wrote in a report, adding that Airbnb ""remains best positioned to serve emerging demand trends.' But Mizuho Americas analyst James Lee is more concerned, noting in a report that growth levels compared to the pre-pandemic period of 2019 may trail Wall Street's forecasts ""due to uncertainties related to rising covid cases."" Lee has a ""neutral"" rating on the stock, adding that Airbnb shares are trading ""still at a significant premium to peers"" in the travel sector.Airbnb has had a turbulent ride on Wall Street, ever since the company went public late last year in one of the most anticipated debuts of a so-called unicorn startup in quite some time. Shares more than doubled on their first day of trading in December 2020, but they're flat in 2021, trailing the broader market's double-digit percentage gains. Airbnb's stock is also trading more than 30% below the all-time high it hit in February. But it's still worth more than $90 billion —  nearly three times the market value of Hilton (HLT).",2021-08-13,investing,CNN
Should I offset my summer holiday flights?,"Flying off somewhere nice this summer? Now feeling guilty? You wouldn't be alone.The continuing campaign by teenage climate activist Greta Thunberg to get everyone to reduce their carbon emissions has prompted some soul-searching over when, and whether, it is OK to fly.In Scandinavia there is even a word for it - ""flygskam"" - flight shame.If you don't want to add to the carbon in the atmosphere, you could, like Greta, take the train instead.But if you are have already booked your fight, or if flying is the only way of getting to your destination, you can instead donate to a carbon offsetting scheme.These allow individuals and businesses to give money to environmental projects around the world in order to balance out their carbon footprints.So for example, if you fly from London to New York, you can contribute to a scheme that plants trees, or helps people in an African country get more efficient cooking stoves.You can either do this via your airline, or pick one of the growing number of stand-alone organisations that run carbon offsetting schemes.But how do you choose a scheme that has meaningful impact? It is an important question because offsetting is controversial. Some critics have dubbed it a ""licence to pollute"", arguing that it is likely to ease your conscience and make you happier about booking another flight.And some offsetting schemes have been criticised in the past for not being effective. Yet despite this criticism, demand for offsetting is soaring.First you calculate how much carbon you've emitted. Then you buy an ""offset"".These are part shares in projects that work to reduce carbon being emitted elsewhere, usually in poorer parts of the world.These can be schemes to plant trees, install renewable energy technology, or to change people's lifestyles, such as providing them with more fuel-efficient cooking equipment.This way, if you have emitted a tonne of carbon, in theory at least, you have ensured a tonne of carbon hasn't been emitted somewhere else.Many airlines do run their own schemes, but they often come in for criticism for not pressing home the environmental message strongly enough. Virgin Atlantic runs its programme in partnership with a reputable offsetting company called ClimateCare.Unlike some of its rivals, Virgin's offsetting scheme doesn't come up automatically as an option when you buy a ticket. You have to scroll right to the bottom of the page and click on the sustainability tab, it then offers a simple calculator where you can type in your journey and find out how much to pay.Emma Harvey, Virgin Atlantic's head of sustainability, says the firm has tried to make the scheme as flexible and user-friendly as possible, but ""customer offsetting is one small part of a much bigger picture where there have been huge developments over the last 10 years"".Instead of focusing on offsetting, Virgin prefers to emphasise its efforts to limit carbon emissions, through buying more fuel-efficient aircraft, reducing the weight of onboard equipment, and exploring alternative, sustainable fuels.By contrast, German carbon offsetting organisation Atmosfair provides customers with quite a bit more information about the impact of their flight.As well as an online calculator it reminds you that an economy class return flight from London to New York produces an average 2,726kg of carbon dioxide per person. That is more than the average amount released per year by a typical car - 2,000kg.It also gives a vivid visualisation showing that emissions from that one flight will dwarf the annual emissions of a person in India.It's a sobering experience. But that is the point says spokeswoman Julia Zhu. Offsetting is not supposed to salve consciences, or act as a get-out-of-jail-free card.""Every serious offsetting organisation really stresses it is better to avoid emissions when you can,"" she says. ""It's always better not to fly. But flying and offsetting is better than flying and not offsetting.""Atmosfair calculates that the cost of offsetting that return journey between the UK and US would be â¬63 ($71; Â£57). This is significantly higher than on Virgin's calculator, though that may be because Virgin's flights are less polluting than the average. Atmosfair also publishes an index which compares airlines' efficiency, so customers can choose the airline with lowest emissions.Ms Zhu hopes this kind of information will help exert pressure on the airlines to do more over climate change.But it's not just in the messaging that carbon offsetting has proved controversial. In the past some carbon offsetting schemes have been criticised for backing projects that did not deliver on the results they promised. Sometimes this was because equipment broke, or people didn't continue to follow the programme on the ground. In other cases projects didn't work in the interests of locals or the local environment.More from the BBC's series taking an international perspective on trade:To ensure that people chose a decent provider, Edward Hanrahan, chief executive of ClimateCare, says is it important that to ""look for reputable players with accreditation from one of the big monitoring organisations"".Both ClimateCare and Atmosfair projects are accredited by a Swiss organisation called Gold Standard. Other accreditors included American Carbon Registry, Climate Action Reserve and Verified Carbon Standard.""We've learned what works, what doesn't,"" says Sarah Leugers from Gold Standard. ""We've reviewed and revised our rules, increased the rigour of our requirements.""Ms Leugers says luckily the early ""wild west"" days in the industry are now over, and that plenty of offsetters meet Gold Standard's criteria, which include UN sustainable development goals, such as protection of human rights and the local environment.So the debate has now shifted to what kind of projects are the most useful. Traditionally schemes have focused on projects overseas concentrating on the production and distribution of fuel-efficient cook stoves, rainforest preservation schemes, or wind and solar power schemes.But increasingly offsetters are branching out into new technologies and - since low income countries are taking on more responsibility for their own carbon emissions - on projects closer to home.Customers of the Swiss offsetting organisation MyClimate.org, can choose between traditional overseas offsets and projects in Switzerland. These include things like installing energy saving shower heads, and remote control of the heating systems, in Alpine holiday homes. They're not the sort of thing usually associated with offsetting, but MyClimate's Kai Landwehr says the change wouldn't happen without the subsidy.But in the end the quest for an easy conscience may turn out to be solved more easily simply by next year swapping your Flygskam for the new Scandinavian buzzword - tagskryt, because in the end ""train brag"" comes with a lot less baggage.",2019-07-17,business,BBC
Crypto hacker offered reward after $600m heist,"A hacker who stole just over $600m (Â£433m) worth of cryptocurrency was offered $500,000 and immunity as a reward for returning the money.Poly Network made the controversial offer after the hacker pledged to send back the money.The attack was uncovered on Tuesday when Poly Network publicly pleaded with the hacker to help.One former FBI official said ""private companies have no authority to promise immunity from criminal prosecution"".The attack is one of the largest hacking heists in history. Poly Network said the person had exploited a vulnerability in its system. Most of the money has now been given back, although the hacker says they are not interested in the reward.Shortly after the hack the anonymous individual posted notes to the publicly available blockchain taunting the company and asking for advice on how to launder his stolen riches.Later, the criminal claimed ""not to be interested in money"" and promised to return it all. By Thursday evening, Poly Network said most of the remaining assets in the hacker's possession had been transferred to a digital wallet controlled by both the hacker and the company.Poly Network says it is still waiting for the repayment process to be fully completed but that it is working with the hacker. A portion of the stolen coins were frozen shortly after the attack have not yet been transferred but can't be used by the hacker anyway. ""The hacker still holds $33.4m of stolen Tether [tokens] - because it has been frozen by Tether themselves,"" Tom Robinson, co-founder of Elliptic, a London-based blockchain analytics and compliance firm, told the BBC.He added that it could be seen on the blockchain that ""a few thousand dollars' worth of various other tokens"" were being held onto by the hacker. It was not clear, however, if these were part of the stolen assets, or donations that the hacker requested people to send them on Thursday as a thank you for returning the money.Other money outstanding also includes a 13.37 Ether tip ($40,000), which the hacker sent to a user who warned them that the Tether tokens had been frozen by its developer.In a three page Q&A posted online the anonymous hacker claimed he or she carried out the heist for fun and to encourage cryptocurrency exchange firm Poly Networks to improve its security. Poly Network appears to have accepted the explanation and dubbed the hacker ""Mr White Hat"".White hat hackers are ethical security researchers who use their skills for good to help organisations find security flaws.Poly Network confirmed that it sent a note to the attack saying ""we believe that your action is white hat behaviour, we plan to offer you a $500,000"" reward. The firm added: ""We assure you that you will not be accountable for this incident.""The alleged move has angered some in the security world who are worried that it might set a precedent for criminal hackers to white-wash their actions.Katie Paxton-Fear, a white hat hacker and lecturer at Manchester Metropolitan University, says that ""labelling this hack as white hat is just really disappointing"".Mrs Paxton-Fear has found over 30 vulnerabilities in organisations ranging from the US Department of Defense (DoD) to Verizon Media.""White hat hacking is all about having a scope, not touching some systems, working with the team, writing professional reports detailing our findings, not going further than we have to to demonstrate risk,"" she said.  ""Our approach is 'first, do no harm', potentially verifying fixes are put in place and not putting any users data at risk.""Charlie Steele, Partner at Forensic Risk Alliance and former Department of Justice and FBI official is also concerned about the alleged offer from Poly Network.""Private companies have no authority to promise immunity from criminal prosecution,"" he told the BBC. He added: ""In this event where a hacker stole the $600m 'for fun' and then returned most of it, all while remaining anonymous, is not likely to lessen regulators' concerns about the variety of risks posed by crypto-currencies.""",2021-08-13,business,BBC
Ningbo: Global supply fears as China partly shuts major port,"The partial closure of one of China's biggest cargo ports due to coronavirus has raised fresh concerns about the impact on global trade. Services were shut on Wednesday at a terminal at Ningbo-Zhoushan port after a worker was infected with the Delta variant of Covid-19.Ningbo-Zhoushan in eastern China is the world's third-busiest cargo port.The closure threatens more disruption to supply chains ahead of the key Christmas shopping season.Closing the terminal on Meishan island until further notice will cut the port's capacity for container cargo by about a quarter.It comes as the cost of shipping from China and South East Asia to the East coast of the US has already hit a record high, according to the Freightos Baltic global container freight index.And some UK businesses were already feeling the pressure of much higher shipping costs.Jason Chiang from Ocean Shipping Consultants told the BBC's Asia Business Report that the global shipping industry is likely to feel the impact of the pandemic for several more months.""We don't expect to see any new shipping capacity until two years down the road. So everything between now and two years will be dependent on how the pandemic plays out,"" he said.Ningbo-Zhoushan is the world's third-biggest cargo port after Shanghai and Singapore.For people trying to ship goods from East Asia to Europe or the US, it's one blow after another. The Covid crisis put the container shipping industry under intense pressure by knocking normal patterns of supply and demand out of kilter.Then came the Ever Given, which blocked the Suez canal for six days, delaying hundreds of vessels and causing knock-on effects that lasted for weeks.And on top of that, partial closures of key terminals in China - at Yantian earlier in the year and now Ningbo - have caused further disruption.Each time something like this happens, it can trigger further problems, including congestion at other ports - many of which are already operating at a slower rate than usual due to Covid restrictions.Shipping lines are pretty happy, because container rates are sky high. For importers it's a different matter.""Perfect storm"" is an overused cliche, but right now it's a good description of what's going on in the industry. Certainly this is more than merely a case of choppy waters. If the terminal remains shut for an extended period it could have an especially large impact on the world economy.In the city of Ningbo, where the port is located, authorities have also suspended inbound and outbound flights to China's capital Beijing.A district close to the port has also been put on partial lockdown as businesses including cinemas, gyms and bars have been shut.The port's closure comes as global trade is usually much heavier in the second half of the year as businesses in Europe and North America prepare for a jump in sales ahead of Christmas and other holidays.This is the second coronavirus-related closure to hit a Chinese port in recent months after Yantian in Shenzhen was partially shut for several weeks from the end of May.Companies were already struggling to source the goods to keep their business going as the pandemic shut down economies around the world.Global supply chains were put under even more strain when a huge container vessel became stuck in the Suez Canal in March.The Ever Given, which carries cargo between Asia and Europe, blocked the major shipping lane in Egypt for almost a week.That caused huge disruptions and delays to the global shipping industry as vessels were forced to wait for the canal to reopen or take the much longer route around the southern tip of Africa.",2021-08-13,business,BBC
Is it worth tracking your carbon footprint?,"Increasingly concerned about the environment, for the past few years Alya Annabi, 26, has taken steps to live a more sustainable lifestyle, with the digital learning manager refilling goods at plastic-free stores, making her own skincare from scratch and composting her kitchen waste.But in the past year Ms Annabi has decided to take her environmental mission to the next level by tracking her carbon emissions. Using an app called Capture, which calculates users' monthly CO2 targets by asking a series of questions such as how many flights per year you take and what kind of diet you adhere to, and using GPS tracking to predict emissions from transportation, Ms Annabi is able to view an estimate of her carbon environmental impact.""I've been on a more conscious journey for the past couple of years,"" says Ms Annabi, who lives in Singapore. ""I like to measure things so it's a nice way to have real numbers.""Seeing the higher carbon emissions from meat in her diet was one of the reasons behind her decision to go vegetarian. The app has also made her more aware of the type of transport she takes. ""I definitely now try and walk more and take the bus or train rather than a car or taxi. I'm more mindful because I can see the numbers.""With climate change affecting regions around the world and exacerbating extreme weather events, more people are looking at ways to lead a more planet-friendly lifestyle. Almost two thirds of people around the world now view climate change as a global emergency, according to the largest opinion poll on tackling global warming.While the big impact on CO2 emissions will have to be made by governments and business, apps such as Capture and Almond are helping individuals measure their own carbon footprint, as well offering ways to offset emissions and providing tips on leading a lower carbon lifestyle.Billing itself as a ""Strava for lower carbon living"", Edinburgh-based website Pawprint, which launched in September 2019 and is set to launch on the App store this month, works in a similar way to Capture, with users encouraged to answer questions about their lifestyle across areas such as home, diet, travel and consumer goods.Questions range from how much you spend on electronics and gadgets every month to how much is spent on paper products like magazines and newspapers. Based on such data, Pawprint then calculates your CO2 emissions and to help simplify it, equates it to how many miles driven. Using data provided and verified by carbon footprint expert Prof Mike Berners-Lee, it also encourages users to set their own carbon reduction goals.More Technology of BusinessFounder Christian Arno says he was inspired to start the company a few years ago after realising the danger posed by climate change: ""I'd always been vaguely eco and would travel by train and so on but I wanted to see what changes I could make as an individual that would make a difference.""There are apps for mental health, managing fitness... people are using apps for key numbers in their lives. Measuring your carbon footprint can be quite motivating. People are understanding even the difference the impact of different meats has on their carbon emissions.""But how accurate are such apps?Prof Tahseen Jafry, director of Centre for Climate Justice at Glasgow Caledonian University, questions how they can capture the carbon footprint of everything we do.""All of the products we consume come from various parts of the world,"" she says. ""How do we begin to look at the footprint of all of those materials that have gone into producing the range of products consumed? There's huge complications to get any proper meaningful and useful data, so how accurate can these apps be?""Nevertheless, carbon tracking features are being integrated into other services, including banking.Based on individual transaction data, some customers are able to view their carbon footprints alongside their statements.Using open banking technology provided by companies such as Icelandic tech company Meniga, and CoGo, spending - from a cup of copy to an energy bill - can be translated into a carbon equivalent.Some 35 UK banks have so far joined CoGo, which has been downloaded 50,000 times since it launched in 2019. Customers can see a real-time personalised breakdown of their footprint, compare their results to the country average, and view information on ways they can reduce their score and offset emissions.""People love seeing and tracking their carbon footprint,"" says Emma Kisby, managing director UK of CoGo, which has headquarters in New Zealand.""It's educating [people] about carbon emissions, and then the next question [for users] is, 'what do we do now?' For example, people might look at carbon emissions associated with their clothing spend and think can I buy secondhand? Collectively, small actions can have an enormous impact.""However, with the apps unable to distinguish what products users have bought - for example, if they bought new or second-hand goods on Ebay, how accurate is the data?""It gets more complex when it gets to product level,"" admits Ms Kisby. ""That's where we want to go into 2022... we are looking to do more work with businesses to open up to show product-level data.""While those already awakened by the climate crisis and engaged in being more environmentally-friendly might be interested in tracking their carbon emissions, Prof Jafry questions the broader interest. ""How do we get the people not really interested in any of that to use them?"" she asks.",2021-02-23,business,BBC
How can new technology protect outdoor workers?,"Cesar David Gonzalez does a bit of everything, from house painting to carpentry. The self-employed 56-year-old lives in the San Fernando Valley, one of the hottest parts of Los Angeles. He works six or seven days a week, even when temperatures surpass 40Â°C and when wildfire smoke clogs the air. But it is when he is pouring concrete that he really feels the impact of the heat. Typically, Mr Gonzalez and his crew check the weather before they head out so they can try to plan where they will stand according to the sun's position.In July and August they start work an hour earlier than usual, at 07:00, and shift around so that they're working in the shade where possible. But while laying concrete it is hard to dip into the shade, if it even exists, to take breaks. Occasionally, Mr Gonzalez's co-workers will feel so faint that they have to sit in the car with the air conditioning on, and some even feel the need to leave a job site early.Mr Gonzalez and his hardworking colleagues are not the only outdoor workers in Los Angeles who are forced to adapt to the scorching heat.  A seller of iced desserts moves his cart around a park so that he can rest in the shade. A recycler sets out with a torch before the sun has fully emerged. A postal delivery worker, who walks over 10 miles a day, gratefully accepts cold drinks from residents. Such adaptations to their work days are not just necessary, however, they can be life saving. Heat can kill. It lowers a worker's ability to concentrate and leads to notable increases in workplace injuries, research suggests. Poor sleep makes heat-related illness more likely; and high temperatures can also make it challenging to sleep. For workers operating heavy machinery, this can be a lethal combination.But rising temperatures, linked to human-caused climate change, damage economies even beyond the immediate health impacts. Above a threshold of 20-25Â°C, each additional degree is associated with around a 2% drop in task productivity. By 2030, the global cost of lower labour productivity due to heat is estimated to reach Â£1.8 trillion per year: West Africa will be especially hard hit.Yet, for reasons including financial need, workplace pressure, and a lack of awareness of the health impacts of high temperatures, many people continue to work past their heat tolerance.Outdoor workers, notably those within the construction and agricultural industry, are the most affected by rising heat.Undocumented farmworkers who are paid per unit may be especially vulnerable, working under gruelling conditions with little shade and little opportunity to complain. The self-employed, informally employed and those on zero-hour contracts may also feel they have no choice but to work at all hours.Even the fittest people in the world are susceptible, like the Olympic athletes collapsing in the baking heat and humidity of Tokyo.Sometimes workers who have managed to climb the career ladder may actually be at greater risk of heat strain. This was one finding of research on outdoor workers by Dr Jennifer Runkle, an environmental epidemiologist at the North Carolina Institute for Climate Studies, and colleagues. ""This is largely due to the fact that workers with more education typically hold managerial positions and spend less of their work week outdoors in the heat,"" Dr Runkle explains. ""As a result, these workers aren't fully acclimated to working outdoors in the heat and are typically only required to do so intermittently, placing this group at higher risk.""There are some easy wins to reduce heat strain. Optimising work hours to avoid workers being out when the sun is at its hottest may have the greatest effect on employee health. In warm countries like Spain and Greece, there's already a culture of resting during the hottest part of the day. India's National Disaster Management Authority has also advised avoiding strenuous work between 12.00pm and 15.00pm. Individualised, wearable sensors could be a useful tool for determining likely heat strain. Dr Runkle believes that this technology would be especially useful in industries like construction, mining and agriculture. Early adoption of these devices would be a win-win, according to Dr Runkle: boosting productivity and reducing injury ""while ensuring the health and safety of an ageing workforce and eliminating the risk of heat strain"".Wider take-up of wearable heat sensors by employees, employers and healthcare providers would also help overcome gaps in heat awareness. ""One important finding we discovered in our research with outdoor workers is that there was a mismatch between workers' perception of heat risk and their actual exposure to extreme heat captured by wearables,"" said Dr Runkle. Another aid could be wearable cooling technology, but such devices are mainly in the research and development phase, or limited in availability. One such device is Sony's Reon Pocket 2, which it launched in April. A wearable cooling or warming device worn inside clothing, it uses electrical conductors that transfer heat when electricity is run through them. While the company is eventually planning to launch the product overseas, it's currently only available in Japan.The first Reon Pocket model sold 10,000 units within two days of its launch. While the new model has a special mode for keeping golf players cool, it's apparently also being used by some outdoor workers.There are promising examples of companies taking more responsibility for protecting workers from oppressive heat, such as managers of bus drivers in Jinan, China. Responsible employers should be providing drinks and shaded rest areas to outdoor workers. Some in Ahmedabad, India have also been supplying ice packs. Regularly scheduled or mandatory rest breaks could help where employees are over-exerting themselves. Of course, not all employers are responsible, which is why many campaigners are calling for enforceable heat standards and stronger workplace protections.More Technology of BusinessIn many countries, occupational heat health is a matter of guidance, rather than requirements to safeguard workers. In the US, a proposed heat health law that has been languishing is the AsunciÃ³n Valdivia Heat Illness and Fatality Prevention Act, named after a 53-year-old farmworker who died in 2004 after picking grapes for 10 hours at over 40C.Clinicians like Cheryl L Holder, who now teaches medicine at Florida International University, are also doing what they can. She recalls a patient who worked in a garden centre, who was overheating in ways that were worsening her diabetes. She wrote a letter to that patient's employer, encouraging them to give her patient time off.""I don't have any real enforcement other than the goodwill of the employers,"" she acknowledges. ""But oftentimes, I will see some improvement there.""As doctors witness the mounting toll of heat, and as officials debate policy measures, people like Mr Gonzalez will continue to find ways to keep themselves healthy in an ever-warmer climate. ""This year has become more hot,"" he acknowledges. In the future, even fit and healthy workers like him may reach the limits of their endurance, making larger-scale heat adaptation a searing necessity.Some of Christine Ro's research for this article was supported by the Social Science Research Council and the Japan Foundation Center for Global Partnership, through the Abe Fellowship for Journalists.",2021-08-12,business,BBC
Lord of the Rings: Amazon moves show to UK from New Zealand,"Production of the new Lord of the Rings television series will move to the UK from New Zealand, Amazon Studios has confirmed.The as-yet-untitled fantasy epic is set thousands of years before the events in JRR Tolkien's books The Hobbit and The Lord of the Rings.It is a major blow for New Zealand's entertainment industry where the award-winning movies were also filmed.  UK culture secretary Oliver Dowden welcomed the decision.He said: ""Thousands of high quality jobs all across the UK will be created and supported by The Lord of the Rings television series so this is very exciting news.""The Department for Digital, Culture, Media and Sport and the Treasury have been approached for comment on whether Amazon Studios has been offered financial subsidies to move production to the UK.Amazon Studios, the film and TV arm of the technology giant, has already spent $465m (Â£336.5m) on the first season of the show.It said the shift in locations was part of a plan to expand its production space and consolidate its footprint in the UK.The first season of the show will finish filming in New Zealand and will be shown on Amazon Prime in September 2022.Production will then move to the UK and four more seasons of the show are expected to be made.New Zealand's economic development minister Stuart Nash said the government was ""disappointed"" by the decision. In April, the New Zealand government had granted Amazon Studios extra subsidies on its production.Amazon was already receiving a 20% rebate on its expenses for filming The Lord of the Ring series in New Zealand before the government added an extra 5%.At the time, Mr Nash said the agreement with Amazon generated ""local jobs and creates work for local businesses"" and would ""enable a new wave of international tourism branding and promotion for this country"".Commenting on the decision to move production from New Zealand, Mr Nash said the country's film industry was ""incredibly competitive and highly mobile"".""We have no regrets about giving this production our best shot with government support,"" he said.Amazon said it would not ""actively pursue"" the additional 5% subsidy it had been granted. Vernon Sanders, vice president and co-head of TV at Amazon Studios thanked ""the people and the government of New Zealand for their hospitality and dedication and for providing The Lord of the Rings series with an incredible place to begin this epic journey."" New Zealand's dramatic landscapes were also home to Oscar-winning director Peter Jackson's The Lord of the Rings and The Hobbit movie trilogies.The first Lord of the Rings film, The Fellowship of the Ring, was released in December 2001 and the final part of the trilogy was screened in 2003. The popularity of the films helped promote New Zealand's tourist industry. Between 2001 and 2006, annual tourists to the country rose by 40% from 1.7 million to 2.4 million, according to a report.",2021-08-13,business,BBC
Will I ever be able to fly without feeling guilty again?,"For Maggie Robertson, it was a long-haul flight to Texas that changed her mind about flying.It was 2017 and she was having a great holiday. But then Hurricane Harvey came along - and she and her family narrowly sidestepped floods that cost more than 100 lives.""That brush with natural disaster helped put things in perspective,"" she says.Previously a regular flyer, visiting friends in Scotland and holidaying abroad, she says the penny dropped during that trip. And in the end, the decision was easy. ""It was a relief to say I'm not doing it any more,"" she says. ""I knew that what I was doing wasn't consistent with what I thought was right.""She is one of a small band of people who have found flying just too uncomfortable to contemplate any more.Many more people are still boarding the planes, but wrestling with a growing sense of shame. They now feel that their desire for a holiday in the sun or a far-flung adventure is playing a small but undeniable part in the growing crisis of extreme weather events, rising sea levels and melting polar ice.Flying is only responsible for around 2% of global emissions. That may not sound much, but if you are a flyer, it's a much higher proportion of your own carbon footprint. That's because more than 80% of the world's population never fly at all.One flight from London to New York emits around 1,360kg of carbon. Even if you eat vegan and cycle everywhere, you'd struggle to make up for the emissions from a return trip.Those are the kind of calculations that persuaded Maggie Robertson to sign up to Flight Free, an online club, where members pledge to avoid flying for a year at a time.Anna Hughes, its founder, says she doesn't want to make people feel guilty about flying, but she would like them to be more aware.""We're not suggesting that flying should go back to being the preserve of the rich. But we should definitely start to see it as once-in-a-while, if it is necessary, not just to go to Prague for a stag do,"" she says.Yet last month, the government told us it was fine to keep on flying. Saving the planet wasn't about stopping doing things, it was about doing them differently, said Transport Secretary Grant Shapps, announcing the government's plan for decarbonisation. He raised the prospect of super-efficient aircraft, running on hydrogen, batteries and sustainable fuel.That's the view of the broader aviation industry, that flying is becoming cleaner and greener, thanks to the march of technology.""The industry has got a clear plan to decarbonise aviation, and there are a lot of opportunities and proven technologies that can do that,"" says Andy Jefferson, programme director at an organisation called Sustainable Aviation, which works on behalf of the government and the industry, including manufacturers and airports.""Part of the solution will be the evolution of existing types of aeroplanes, as each time they come online, they're in the region of 15% to 20% more efficient and better than the aircraft they're replacing,"" he says. In addition, things such as making sure a plane doesn't carry more fuel or water than it needs, not maintaining planes in holding patterns as they wait to land, and keeping the engines well-maintained to ensure they operate efficiently, can all make flying greener.In the longer run, aircraft could switch away from using fossil fuels altogether, says Mr Jefferson.""In terms of battery electric aircraft and hydrogen-powered aircraft, the industry has already got two-seater, five-seater type aircraft flying today,"" he points out.By the mid-2030s, Mr Jefferson believes we could be taking holidays to the Med in that kind of aircraft or using sustainable fuels from waste materials or crops.So does that mean people can fly with a clear conscience?The trouble with the message, ""Carry on with your lifestyles, we're solving it,"" says Anna Hughes, is that it is rather ""promise-heavy"".In the past, efficiency gains from new planes and better flight management have been swallowed up by big increases in the volume of air traffic, so that aviation as a whole is still emitting more than ever.And many experts question industry optimism about how quickly renewable fuels will become mainstream.In the meantime, say environmentalists, if you fly, you are contributing to the build-up of carbon in the atmosphere that causes global warming. So short-term carbon savings are just as important as hitting longer term goals.""I think it's misleading for the consumer to say, 'Keep on flying, It's OK.' It's not giving the whole picture,"" says Ms Hughes.So what about offsetting? Is that the answer for travellers who want to compensate for the impact of their flight?There are hundreds of offsetting schemes around the world, offering passengers the opportunity to pay towards climate-friendly projects such as protecting the rainforests, installing renewable energy and distributing carbon efficient cookstoves in poor African communities.But offsetting is controversial. In fact, Mike Childs, Friends of the Earth's head of policy, describes it as ""the greatest con on Earth"".""They're trying to pretend that your emissions don't count because you can offset, but the offsets aren't real, they don't last, they're not permanent.""He suggests that, instead you use the offset money to take a train next time or donate to your local nature reserve.On the other hand, he doesn't think individuals should necessarily feel racked with guilt every time they board a plane.""We have got a downer on flying, but we're not saying nobody should ever fly at all,"" he says.""We don't want to attack people who go on holiday once a year, who perhaps can't afford to go by train or don't have the time to go by train.""Rather, he thinks it is up to governments to make change happen, by taxing aviation fuel, making long-distance train travel more affordable and putting in place policies to discourage frequent flying.""We can spend our whole life feeling guilty or we can do what we can to try and minimise [our impact],"" Mr Childs says.""Some people will be carbon angels and rule out absolutely everything, but we also have to live in the real world and recognise that other people can go so far.""Maggie Robertson doesn't see herself as a carbon angel. But she can't imagine being able to fly with an easy conscience again any time soon.She volunteers for Flight Free and has already managed a pre-pandemic summer holiday in Switzerland by train.""Low-carbon flying will be important for people who have to fly, but I'm not optimistic that it is going to transform things to the point where we can all fly as much as we want,"" she says.Even if it it can be achieved in the medium-term, she adds, it won't remove the emissions of the flying we do now, ""so it's not an excuse to carry on as normal.""",2021-08-13,business,BBC
Cost of NHS Covid tests for UK arrivals reduced,"The cost of NHS coronavirus tests for international arrivals to the UK have been reduced, the government has said.Test and Trace tests have been cut from Â£88 to Â£68 for people arriving from green-listed countries and for those coming from amber-listed countries who are fully vaccinated.Meanwhile, the price of two tests for amber arrivals who have not had both jabs has been cut from Â£170 to Â£136.The prices of all providers of day two and eight tests are to be reviewed.It comes after Health Secretary Sajid Javid asked the competition watchdog to investigate ""excessive"" pricing and ""exploitative practices"" among PCR Covid test firms.He said misleading pricing will be clamped down on and providers failing to meet necessary standards will be removed from the government's approved list. NHS Test and Trace advertises its tests alongside private companies' packages and they are available to purchase to fulfil the government's testing requirements for international travel. This is the second time the price of NHS tests has been reduced; previously the cost of a day two and eight package was Â£210.It is understood that if the review finds private companies are offering terms that are unfair and therefore unenforceable, enforcement action could be taken by the Competition and Markets Authority or Trading Standards.If businesses are found to have breached consumer law, they could be subject to a court order to stop operating and told to compensate consumers. ""I am determined to protect consumers and hardworking families from exploitative practices and ensure high quality tests are available at a reasonable price,"" said Mr Javid.""Too many providers are acting like cowboys and that needs to stop. The public should be allowed to enjoy their summer holidays without having to face excessive costs or anxiety.""Any provider found to be misleading the public will be kicked off.""Holidaymakers have complained of high prices and poor service from many of the 400-plus firms offering PCR tests and there have been reports that some have not got full accreditation.According to reports, PCR test prices can range from as little as Â£20 to more than Â£500. There have also been complaints from consumers that they have not received test results or have been sent damaged PCR kits.The government said providers must use laboratories that are either accredited or undergoing accreditation by the independent United Kingdom Accreditation Service, and that businesses that fail to meet standards will be removed from its list of approved providers.The CMA has previously said formal investigations can take a long time, but in this instance it will provide advice to Mr Javid with a view to taking swift action.",2021-08-13,business,BBC
